392
Chapter 18
Opinion Mining and Sentiment Analysis
about the battery of a smartphone. It could even be someone else’s opinion, and
one person might comment on another person’s opinion. Clearly, there is much
variation here that will cause the problem to take different forms.
Opinion content can also vary on the surface: we can identify a one-sentence opin-
ion or a one-phrase opinion. We can also have longer text to express an opinion,
such as a whole news article. Furthermore, we can identify the variation in the sen-
timent or emotion of the opinion holder. We can distinguish positive vs. negative
or neutral sentiment.
Finally, the opinion context can also vary. We can have a simple context, like a
different time or different locations. There could be also complex contexts, such
as some background of a topic being discussed. When an opinion is expressed in
a particular discourse context, it has to be interpreted in different ways than when
it’s expressed in another context.
From a computational perspective, we’re mostly interested in what opinions can
be extracted from text data. One computational objective might be to determine
the target of an opinion. For example, “I don’t like this phone at all,” is clearly
an opinion by the speaker about a phone. In contrast, the text might also report
opinions about others. One could make an observation about another person’s
opinion and report this opinion. For example, “I believe he loves the painting.”
That opinion is really expressed from another person; it doesn’t mean this person
loves that painting. Clearly, these two kinds of opinions need to be analyzed in
different ways. Sometimes, a reviewer might mention opinions of his or her friend.
Another complication is that there may be indirect opinions or inferred opinions
that can be obtained by making inferences about what is expressed in the text
that might not necessarily look like opinion. For example, one statement might
be, “This phone ran out of battery in only one hour.” Now, this is in a way a
factual statement because it’s either true or false. However, one can also infer some
negative opinions about the quality of the battery of this phone, or the opinion
about the battery life. These are interesting variations that we need to pay attention
to when we extract opinions.
The task of opinion mining can be defined as taking contextualized input to gen-
erate a set of opinion representations, as shown in Figure 18.4. Each representation
should identify the opinion holder, target, content, and context. Ideally, we can also
infer opinion sentiment from the comment and the context to better understand
the opinion. Often, some elements of the representation are already known. We
just saw an example in the case of a product review where the opinion holder and
the opinion target are often explicitly identified.
