17.3 Mining One Topic from Text
367
θ
EM as Hill-Climbing → Converse to Local Maximum
Likelihood p(d|θ) 
Original likelihood
Lower bound of likelihood function
M-step = maximizing the lower bound
E-step = computing the lower bound
Next guess   p(n+1)(w|θd)
Current guess   p(n)(w|θd)
Figure 17.26
EM as hill-climbing for optimizing likelihood.
current guess of the parameter value is p(n)(w | θd), and it is seen to be non-optimal
in the picture. In the E-step, the EM algorithm (conceptually) computes an auxiliary
function which lower bounds the original likelihood function. Lower bounding
means that for any given value of θd, the value of this auxiliary function would
be no larger than that of the original likelihood function. In the M-step, the EM
algorithm finds an optimal parameter value that would maximize the auxiliary
function and treat this parameter value as our improved estimate, p(n+1)(w | θd).
Since the auxiliary function is a lower bound of the original likelihood function,
maximizing the auxiliary function ensures the new parameter to also have a higher
value according to the original likelihood function unless it has already reached a
local maximum, in which case, the optimal value maximizing the auxiliary function
is also a local maximum of the original likelihood function. This explains why the
EM algorithm is guaranteed to converge to a local maximum. You might wonder
why we don’t work on finding an improved parameter value directly on the original
likelihood function. Indeed, it is possible to do that, but in the EM algorithm, the
auxiliary function is usually much easier to optimize than the original likelihood
function, so in this sense, it reduces the problem into a somewhat simpler one.
Although the auxiliary function is generally easier to optimize, it does not always
have an analytical solution, which means that the maximization of the auxiliary
function may itself require another iterative process, which would be embedded in
the overall iterative process of the EM algorithm.
In our case of the simple mixture model, we did not explicitly compute this
auxiliary function in the E-step because the auxiliary function is very simple and
