422
Chapter 19
Joint Analysis of Text and Structured Data
View1
Themes
Theme
coverage:
Government
Donation
New
Orleans
Texas
Texas
View2
July
2005
July 2005
…
Document
View3
Sociologist
Choose a view
Choose a 
coverage
government 0.3
response 0.2 …
Criticism of government
response to the hurricane
primarily consisted of
criticism of its response
to … The total shut-in oil
production from the Gulf
of Mexico … approximately
24% of the annual
production and the shut-in
gas production … Over
seventy countries pledged
monetary donations or
other assistance. …
donate 0.1
relief 0.05
help 0.02 …
city 0.2
new 0.1
orleans 0.05 …
Figure 19.5
Generation of all words in a document using CPLSA. (Courtesy of Qiaozhu Mei)
Such context-dependent topic patterns can be very useful for answering various
questions as we mentioned earlier.
The standard PLSA can easily be seen as a special case of CPLA when we have
used just one single view of topics by using the whole collection as context, and used
each document ID as a context for deciding topic coverage. As a result, what we can
discover using PLSA is just one single set of topics characterizing the content in the
text data with no way to reveal the difference of topics covered in different contexts.
The standard PLSA can only reveal the coverage of topics in each document, but
cannot discover the topic coverage associated with a particular context.
In contrast, CPLSA would provide more flexibility to embed the context variables
as needed to enable discovery of multiple views of topics and context-specific
coverage of topics, thus enriching the topical patterns that can be discovered.
Since CPLSA remains a mixture model, we can still use the EM algorithm to
solve the problem of parameter estimation, although the number of parameters to
be estimated would be significantly larger than PLSA. Thus, theoretically speaking,
CPLSA can allow us to discover any context-specific topics and topic coverage distri-
butions. However, in reality, due to the inevitable sparsity of data, we must restrict
the space of the context variables to control the complexity of the model. Once esti-
mated, the parameters of CPLSA would naturally contain context variables, includ-
ing particularly many conditional probabilities of topics (given a certain context)
