15.2 Overview of Text Categorization Methods
301
of categorization. For example, the rule if the word “governor” occurs → assign pol-
itics label. Obviously, designing effective rules requires a significant amount of
knowledge about the specific problem of categorization.
Such a rule-based manual approach would work well if: (1) the categories are
very clearly defined (usually means that the categories are relatively simple); (2) the
categories are easily distinguished based on surface features in text (e.g., particular
words only occur in a particular category of documents); and (3) sufficient domain
knowledge is available to suggest many effective rules.
However, the manual approach has some significant disadvantages. The first
is that it is labor-intensive, thus it does not scale up well both to the number of
categories (since a new category requires new rules) and to the growth of data (since
new data may also need new rules). The second is that it may not be possible to
come up with completely reliable rules and it is hard to handle the uncertainty in
the rules. Finally, the rules may not be all consistent with each other. As a result,
the categorization results may depend on the order of application of different
rules.
These problems with the rule-based manual approach can mostly be addressed
by using machine learning where humans would help the machine by labeling
some examples with the correct categories (i.e., creating training examples), and
the machine will learn from these examples to somewhat automatically construct
rules for categorization, only that the rules are somewhat “soft” and weighted, and
how the rules should be combined is also learned based on the training data. Note
that although in such a supervised machine learning approach, cateorization ap-
pears to be “automatic,” it does require human effort in creating the training data,
unless the training data is naturally available to us (which sometimes does happen).
The human-created rules, if any, can also be used as features in such a learning-
based approach, and they will be combined in a weighted manner to minimize the
classification errors on the training data with the weights automatically learned.
The machine may also automatically construct soft rules based on primitive fea-
tures provided by humans as in the case of decision trees [Quinlan 1986], which
can be easily interpreted as a “rule-based” classifier, but the paths from the root
to the leaves (i.e., the rules) are inducted automatically by using machine learning.
Once a classifier (categorizer) is trained, it can be used to categorize any unseen
text data.
In general, all these learning-based categorization methods rely on discrimina-
tive features of text objects to distinguish categories, and they would combine mul-
tiple features in a weighted manner where the weights are automatically learned
(i.e., adjusted to minimize errors of categorization on the training data). Different
methods tend to vary in their way of measuring the errors on the training data, i.e.,
