Exercises
37
ble comprehensive introduction to Bayesian statistics is given in the book Bayesian
Data Analysis [Gelman et al. 1995]. Cover and Thomas [1991] provide a comprehen-
sive introduction to information theory. There are many books on machine learning
where a more rigorous introduction to the basic concepts in machine learning as
well as many specific machine learning approaches can be found (e.g., Bishop 2006,
Mitchell 1997).
Exercises
2.1. What can you say about p(X | Y) if we know X and Y are independent random
variables? Prove it.
2.2. In an Information Retrieval course, there are 78 computer science majors,
21 electrical and computer engineering majors, and 10 library and information
science majors. Two students are randomly selected from the course. What is the
probability that they are from the same department? What is the probability that
they are from different departments?
2.3. Use Bayes’ rule to solve the following problem. One third of the time, Milo
takes the bus to work and the other times he takes the train. The bus is less reliable,
so he gets to work on time only 50% of the time. If taking the train, he is on time 90%
of the time. Given that he was on time on a particular day, what is the probability
that Milo took the bus?
2.4. In a game based on a deck of 52 cards, a single card is drawn. Depending on
the type of card, a certain value is either won or lost. If the card is one of the four
aces, $10 is won. If the card is one of the four kings, $5 is won. If the card is one of
the eleven diamonds that is not a king or ace, $2 is won. Otherwise, $1 is lost. What
are the expected winnings or losings after drawing a single card? (Would you play?)
2.5. Consider the game outlined in the previous question. Imagine that two
aces were drawn, leaving 50 cards remaining. What is the expected value of the
next draw?
2.6. In the information theory section, we defined three random variables X, Y,
and Z when discussing entropy. We compared H(Y) with H(Z). How does H(X)
compare to the other two entropies?
2.7. In the information theory section, we compared the entropy of the word the
to that of the word unicorn. In general, what types of words have a high entropy and
what types of words have a low entropy? As an example, consider a corpus of ten
