252
Chapter 13
Word Association Mining
have to be words. They could be phrases or entities. If you think about the general
problem of sequence mining, then we can think about any units being words. We
think of paradigmatic relations as relations that are applied to units that tend to
occur in a similar location in a sentence (or a sequence of data elements in general).
Syntagmatic relations capture co-occurring elements that tend to show up in the
same sequence. So, these two measures are complimentary and we’re interested in
discovering them automatically from text data.
Discovering such word relations has many applications. First, such relations can
be directly useful for improving accuracy of many NLP tasks, and this is because
these relations capture some knowledge about language. If you know two words
are synonyms, for example, that would help with many different tasks. Grammar
learning can be also done by using such techniques; if we can learn paradigmatic
relations, then we can form classes of words. If we learn syntagmatic relations, then
we would be able to know the rules for putting together a larger expression based
on component expressions by learning the sentence structure. Word relations can
be also very useful for many applications in text retrieval and mining.
In search and text retrieval, we can use word associations to modify a query
for feedback, making search more effective. As we saw in Chapter 7, this is often
called query expansion. We can also use related words to suggest related queries
to a user to explore the information space. Yet another application is to use word
associations to automatically construct a hierarchy for browsing. We can have
wordsasnodesandassociationsasedges, allowingausertonavigatefromoneword
to another to find information. Finally, such word associations can also be used
to compare and summarize opinions. We might be interested in understanding
positive and negative opinions about a new smartphone. In order to do that, we can
look at what words are most strongly associated with a feature word like battery in
positive vs. negative reviews. Such syntagmatic relations would help us show the
detailed opinions about the product.
13.1
General idea of word association mining
So, how can we discover such associations automatically? Let’s first look at the
paradigmatic relation. Here, we essentially can take advantage of similar context.
Figure 13.1 shows a simple example using the words dog and cat.
Generally, we see the two words occur in similar context. After all, that is the
definition of a paradigmatic relation. On the right side of the figure, we extracted
the context of cat and dog from this small sample of text data. We can have different
perspectives to look at the context. For example, we can look at what words occur
