222
Chapter 11
Recommender Systems
similar users like and assume that if those other users who are similar to you like an
item, you may also like it. Note that if we can get user ratings of items, collaborative
filtering can be applied to recommend any item. Content-based filtering, however,
can only be applied to a case where we know how to measure similarity of items. In
any specific application, we will want to combine the two approaches to optimize
the filtering performance.
Content-based filtering can usually be done by extending a retrieval system to
add a thresholding component. There are two challenges associated with threshold
setting. First, at the beginning, we must set an initial threshold without requiring
much information from a user. Second, over time, we need to learn from feedback
to optimize the threshold. Many threshold learning methods have been proposed.
In practice, a simple thresholding strategy such as the beta-gamma threshold
setting method we will discuss is often good enough.
The basic idea behind collaborative filtering is to predict the rating of a current
active user u for object x based on a weighted average of the ratings of x given by
similar users to u. Thus, we can think of this approach involving two steps: In the
first step, we simply “retrieve” similar users to the current user u where similarity
is often defined as the similarity between the two vectors for two users. Each user
can be represented by a rating vector (i.e., all the ratings given by this user). The
similarity of two vectors can be measured based on the cosine similarity or Pearson
correlation of the two vectors, which tends to perform very well empirically. In the
second step, we compute a weighted average of the ratings of x given by all these
retrieved similar users where the weight is the correlation between the active user
and the corresponding user (to the weight).
As we will see in this chapter, many recommender systems are extensions of
the information retrieval systems and techniques we have discussed previously.
Therefore, it may be beneficial to read Chapter 6 before this one if the reader is
unfamiliar with the basic concepts or terminology. We continue this chapter with
content-based recommendation, followed by a section on user-based recommen-
dation (collaborative filtering).
11.1
Content-based Recommendation
Figure 11.1 shows a generic information filtering system where a stream of content
is absorbed by a filtering system. Based on either the content of the item or the other
users that liked the item, the system decides whether or not to pass the item along
to the user. In this section, the filtering system will inspect the content of the item
and compare it to both the user’s preferences and feedback without considering
information from other users.
