14.1 Overview of Clustering Techniques
277
generative probabilistic models), where the objective function of the model for the
data (e.g., the likelihood function in the case of a generative probabilistic model)
is to create an indirect bias on how similarity is defined. With these model-based
methods, it’s often the case that an object is assigned a probability distribution
over all the clusters, meaning there is no “hard cluster assignment” as in the
similarity-based methods. We explore both similarity-based clustering and model-
based clustering in this book. This particular chapter focuses on similarity-based
clustering, and the topic analysis chapter (Chapter 17) is a fine example of model-
based clustering.
In this chapter, we examine clustering techniques for both words and docu-
ments. Clustering sentences can be viewed as a case of clustering small documents.
We first start with an overview of clustering techniques, where we categorize the
different approaches. Next, we discuss similarity-based clustering via two common
methods (hierarchical and divisive methods). Then, we introduce term clustering
via both semantic-relatedness and pointwise mutual information before mention-
ing two more advanced topics. We end with clustering evaluation.
14.1
Overview of Clustering Techniques
As mentioned previously, document clustering groups documents together into
clusters. We can categorize document clustering methods into two categories.
Similarity-based clustering . These clustering algorithms need a similarity func-
tion to work. Any two objects have the potential to be similar, depending on
how they are viewed. Therefore, a user must define the similarity in some way.
Agglomerative clustering is a “bottom up” approach, also called hierarchi-
cal clustering. In this approach, we gradually merge similar objects to
generate clusters.
Divisive clustering is a “top down” approach. In this approach, we gradu-
ally divide the whole set of objects into smaller clusters.
For both above methods, each document can only belong to one cluster. This
is a “hard assignment,” unlike the clusters we receive from a model-based
method.
Model-based techniques design a probabilistic model to capture the latent struc-
ture of data (i.e., features in documents), and fit the model to data to obtain
clusters. Typically, this is an example of soft clustering, since one object can
be in multiple clusters (with a certain probability). There will be much more
discussion on this in the topic analysis chapter.
