Chapter 1
Introduction
5
nificant progress has been made in this area in recent years, and specialized
text mining tools have now been widely used in many application domains.
In contrast to structured data, which conform to well-defined schemas and are
thus relatively easy for computers to handle, text has less explicit structure, so
the development of intelligent software tools discussed above requires computer
processing to understand the content encoded in text. The current technology of
naturallanguageprocessinghasnotyetreachedapointtoenableacomputertopre-
cisely understand natural language text (a main reason why humans often should
be involved in the loop), but a wide range of statistical and heuristic approaches
to management and analysis of text data have been developed over the past few
decades. They are usually very robust and can be applied to analyze and manage
text data in any natural language, and about any topic. This book intends to provide
a systematic introduction to many of these approaches, with an emphasis on cov-
ering the most useful knowledge and skills required to build a variety of practically
useful text information systems.
The two services discussed above (i.e., text retrieval and text mining) concep-
tually correspond to the two natural steps in the process of analyzing any “big
text data” as shown in Figure 1.1. While the raw text data may be large, a specific
application often requires only a small amount of most relevant text data, thus
conceptually, the very first step in any application should be to identify the relevant
text data to a particular application or decision-making problem and avoid the un-
necessary processing of large amounts of non-relevant text data. This first step of
converting the raw big text data into much smaller, but highly relevant text data is
often accomplished by techniques of text retrieval with help from users (e.g., users
may use multiple queries to collect all the relevant text data for a decision problem).
In this first step, the main goal is to connect users (or applications) with the most
relevant text data.
Text retrieval
Text mining
Knowledge
Many applications!
Big
text data
Small
relevant data
Figure 1.1
Text retrieval and text mining are two main techniques for analyzing big text data.
