420
Chapter 19
Joint Analysis of Text and Structured Data
Recall that in PLSA the text data are generated by first selecting a topic and then
generating a word from a topic. The topics are shared by all the documents in the
collection, but the selection probability (i.e., coverage of topics) is specific to a
document. In CPLSA, the generation process is similar, but since we assume that
we have context information (time or location) about a document, the generation of
wordsinthedocumentmaybeconditionedonthespecificcontextofthedocument.
Instead of assuming just one set of common topics for the collection, we assume
that there may be variations of this set of topics depending on the context. For
example, we might have a particular view of all the topics imposed by a particular
context (such as a particular time period or a particular location), so we may have
multiple sets of comparable topics that represent different views of these topics
associated with different contexts.
In Figure 19.4, we use a collection of blog articles about Hurricane Katrina to
illustrate this idea. In such a collection, we can imagine potential topics such as
government response, donation, and flooding of New Orleans. These are shown as
different “themes,” each represented by a word distribution. Besides these themes,
we also show three potentially different views of these three themes (topics): View1
is associated with a location context (Texas) and contains Texas-specific word dis-
tributions for all the three themes shown in the figure, which may reflect how the
authors in Texas talk about these topics, which presumably would be different from
how the authors in Illinois talk about them, which can be represented as a differ-
ent view. Similarly, View2 is associated with a time context (July 2005), and View3
is associated with a context of author occupation (a sociologist).
The selection of topics when generating words in a document can also be in-
fluenced by the context of the document. For example, the authors in Texas may
tend to cover one particular aspect more than another, while the authors in other
locations may be different. Similarly, contexts such as the time and author occu-
pation may also suggest a preference for certain topics. In the standard PLSA, we
assume that every document has its own preference for topics; this can be regarded
as a special case of CPLSA where we have taken each document ID as a context for
the document. The different topic selection preferences of different contexts are
illustrated at the bottom of Figure 19.4.
To generate a word in document d, we would first choose a particular view of
all the topics based on the context of the document. For example, the view being
chosen may be the location (Texas); in such a case, we would be using the Texas-
specific topics to generate the word. The next step is to decide a topic coverage,
which again depends on the context. We may choose the coverage associated with
the time (July 2005). Note that this same coverage would be used when generating
