6.3 Vector Space Retrieval Models
91
Programming
Query q
Presidential
d3 ?
d2 ?
d1 ?
dM
d4
d5
Library
Figure 6.2
Illustration of documents plotted in vector space. (Courtesy of Marti Hearst)
In Figure 6.2, we show a three-dimensional space with three words: program-
ming, library, and presidential. Each term defines one dimension. We can consider
vectors in this three dimensional space, and we will assume all our documents and
the query will all be placed in this vector space. For example, the vector d1 repre-
sents a document that probably covers the terms library and presidential without
really talking about programming. What does this mean in terms of representation
of the document? It means that we will rely solely on this vector to represent the
original document, and thus ignore everything else, including, e.g., the order of
the words (which may sometimes be important to keep!). It is thus not an optimal
representation, but it is often sufficient for many retrieval problems.
Intuitively, in this representation, d1 seems to suggest a topic in either presi-
dential or library. Now this is different from another document which might be
represented as a different vector d2. In this case, the document covers programming
and library, but it doesn’t talk about presidential. As you can probably guess, the
topic is likely about programming language and the library is actually a software
library. By using this vector space representation, we can intuitively capture the dif-
ferences between topics of documents. Next, d3 is pointing in a direction that might
be about presidential and programming. We place all documents in our collection in
this vector space and they will be pointing to all kinds of directions given by these
three dimensions.
Similarly, we can place our query in this space as another vector. We can then
measure the similarity between the query vector and every document vector. In this
case, for example, we can easily see d2 seems to be the closest to the query vector
