xviii
Preface
are expected to have basic knowledge about computer science, particularly data
structures and programming languages and be comfortable with some basic con-
cepts in probability and statistics such as conditional probability and parameter
estimation. Readers who do not have this background may still be able to follow
the basic ideas of most of the algorithms discussed in the book; they can also ac-
quire the needed background by carefully studying Chapter 2 of the book and, if
necessary, reading some of the references mentioned in the Bibliographical Notes
section of that chapter to have a solid understanding of all the major concepts men-
tioned therein. META can be used by anyone to easily experiment with algorithms
and build applications, but modifying it or extending it would require at least some
basic knowledge of C++ programming.
The book can be used as a textbook for an upper-level undergraduate course on
information retrieval and text mining or a reference book for a graduate course to
cover practical aspects of information retrieval and text mining. It should also be
useful to practitioners in industry to help them acquire a wide range of practical
techniques for managing and analyzing text data that they can use immediately to
build various interesting real-world applications.
Acknowledgments
This book is the result of many people’s help. First and foremost, we want to express
our sincere thanks to Edward A. Fox for his invitation to write this book for the
ACM Book Series in the area of Information Retrieval and Digital Libraries, of
which he is the Area Editor. We are also grateful to Tamer Ozsu, Editor-in-Chief of
ACM Books, for his support and useful comments on the book proposal. Without
their encouragement and support this book would have not been possible. Next,
we are deeply indebted to Edward A. Fox, Donna Harman, Bing Liu, and Jimmy
Lin for thoroughly reviewing the initial draft of the book and providing very useful
feedback and constructive suggestions. While we were not able to fully implement
all their suggestions, all their reviews were extremely helpful and led to significant
improvement of the quality of the book in many ways; naturally, any remaining
errors in the book are solely the responsibility of the authors.
Throughout the process of writing the book, we received strong support and
great help from Diane Cerra, Executive Editor at Morgan & Claypool Publishers,
whose regular reminders and always timely support are key factors that prevented
us from having the risk of taking “forever” to finish the book; for this, we are truly
grateful to her. In addition, we would like to thank Sara Kreisman for copyediting
and Paul C. Anagnostopoulos and his production team at Windfall Software (Ted
