438
Chapter 19
Joint Analysis of Text and Structured Data
russia russian putin
europe european
germany
bush gore presidential
police court judge
airlines airport air
united trade terrorism
food foods cheese
nets scott basketball
tennis williams open
awards gay boy
moss minnesota chechnya
AAMRQ (American Airlines)
AAPL (Apple)
paid notice st
russia russian europe
olympicgames olympics
she her ms
oil ford prices
black fashion blacks
computer technology software
internet com web
football giants jets
japan japanese plane
Topics are biased toward each time series
Figure 19.17
Sample results: topics mined using two different stock time series. (Adapted from Kim
et al. [2013])
We would like to see whether we can discover biased topics toward either Amer-
ican Airlines or Apple when we use their corresponding time series as context. The
results here show that the iterative causal topic modeling approach indeed gener-
ates topics that are more tuned toward each stock time series. Specifically, on the
left column, we see topics highly relevant to American Airlines, including, e.g., a
topic about airport and airlines, and another about terrorism (the topic is relevant
because of the September 11th terrorist attack in 2001, which negatively impacted
American Airlines), though the correlation of other topics with American Airlines
stock is not obvious. In contrast, on the right column, we see topics that are clearly
more related to AAPL, including a topic about computer technology, and another
about the Web and Internet. While not all topics can be easily interpreted, it is
clear the use of the time series as context has impacted the topics discovered and
enabled discovery of specific topics that are intuitively related to the time series.
These topics can serve as entry points for analysts to further look into the details
for any potential causal relations between topics and time series. These results also
clearly suggest the important role that humans must play in any real application
of causal topic discovery, but these topics can be immediately used as features in a
predictive model (for predicting stock prices). It is reasonable to assume that some
of these topics would make better features than simple features such as n-grams or
ordinary topics discovered from the collection without considering the time series
context.
