448
Chapter 20
Toward A Unified System for Text Management and Analysis
data, it clearly requires additional support beyond text management and analysis.
Yet, we can envision the possibility of developing a relatively general text analysis
system to help users identify and extract effective features for a particular predic-
tion task. In order to ensure generality, such a text analysis system must provide
relatively general text analysis operators that can be applied to many different prob-
lems; most algorithms we introduced in this book are of this kind of nature and can
thus be implemented in a system as general operators. However, each specific text
analysis application would inevitably have different requirements, thus the opera-
tors must also be standardized and compatible with each other so that they can be
flexibly combined to support potentially many different workflows. Note that text
data access functions such as querying, browsing and recommendation, can all be
regarded as instances of specific operators to be “blended” with other operators
such as categorization, clustering, or topic analysis.
The benefit of such an operator-based text analysis system for supporting text
mining and analysis is similar to the benefit that a comprehensive package of
car-repairing toolkits brings to car repairers. In order to diagnose the problem
of a car and fix it, repairers need to use many different tools and combine them
in an ad hoc way to open up components in a car or probe a component with
electrical testers. Although the actual workflow often varies depending on the
specific problem and models of a car, a common set of tools is often sufficient
to accommodate all kinds of tasks. In much the same way, in order to integrate
scattered information, digest all the latent relevant knowledge about a problem in
text data, analysts can also combine various text analysis tools to open up complex
connections between entities or topics buried in text data, identify interesting
patterns, and compute useful features for prediction tasks. As in the case of car
repairing, although the actual workflow may vary dramatically depending on the
specific application, a common set of extensible and trainable analysis tools might
also be sufficient to accommodate all kinds of text analysis applications. Most
algorithms we introduced in this book can potentially serve as such analysis tools,
thus providing a basis for developing a unified system to enable analysts to perform
text analysis in such a way. Although there are still many challenges in designing
and building such a system, it is an important goal to work on.
20.1
Text Analysis Operators
Relational databases are able to support many different applications via a set of
common operators as defined in a query language such as SQL. Similarly, we may
identify a common set of operators for supporting text analysis. In this section, we
discuss some possibilities of defining text analysis operators.
