318
Chapter 16
Text Summarization
summaries on the results page. Using summaries in this way could give the user a
better idea of what information the document contains before he or she decides to
read it.
Opinion summarization is useful for both businesses and shoppers. Summariz-
ing all reviews of a product lets the business know whether the buyers are satisfied
(and why). The review summaries also let the shoppers make comparisons between
different products when searching online. Reviews can be further broken down
into summaries of positive reviews and summaries of negative reviews. An even
more granular approach described in Wang et al. [2010] and Wang et al. [2011] and
further discussed in Chapter 18 uses topic models to summarize product reviews
relating to different aspects. For hotel reviews, this could correspond to service,
location, price, and value. Although the output in these two works is not a human-
readable summary, we could imagine a system that is able to summarize all the
hotel reviews in English (or any other language) for the user.
In this chapter, we overview two main paradigms of summarization techniques
and investigate their different applications.
16.1
Overview of Text Summarization Techniques
There are two main methods in text summarization. The first is selection-based
or extractive summarization. With this method, a summary consists of a sequence
of sentences selected from the original documents. No new sentences are written,
hence the summary is extracted. The second method is generation-based or ab-
stractive summarization. Here, a summary may contain new sentences not in any
of the original documents. One method that we explore here is using a language
model. Previously in this book, we’ve used language models to calculate the like-
lihood of some text; in this chapter, we will show how to use a language model in
reverse to generate sentences. We also briefly touch on the field of natural language
generation in our discussion of abstractive techniques.
Following the pattern of previous chapters, we then move on to evaluation of text
summarization. The two methods each have evaluation metrics that are particularly
focused towards their respective implementation, but it is possible to use (e.g.) an
abstractive evaluation metric on a summary generated by an extractive algorithm.
Finally, we look into some applications of text summarization and see how they are
implemented in real-world systems.
Text summarization is a broad field and we only touch on the core concepts
in this chapter. For further reading, we recommend that the reader start with Das
and Martins [2007], which provides a systematic overview of the field and contains
much of the content from this chapter in an expanded form.
