1.4 How to Use this Book
15
mantic relations between lexical units in text data, i.e., paradigmatic relations
and syntagmatic relations, which can be regarded as an example of discov-
ering knowledge about the natural language used to generate the text data
(i.e., linguistic knowledge). Chapter 14 and Chapter 15 cover, respectively, two
closely related techniques to generate and associate meaningful structures
or annotations with otherwise unorganized text data, i.e., text clustering and
text categorization. Chapter 16 discusses text summarization useful for facil-
itating human digestion of text information. Chapter 17 provides a detailed
discussion of an important family of probabilistic approaches to discovery
and analysis of topical patterns in text data (i.e., topic models). Chapter 18
discusses techniques for analyzing sentiment and opinions expressed in text
data, which are key to discovery of knowledge about preferences, opinions,
and behavior of people based on analyzing the text data produced by them.
Finally, Chapter 19 discusses joint analysis of text and non-text data, which is
often needed in many applications since it is in general beneficial to use as
much data as possible for gaining knowledge and intelligence through (big)
data analysis.
Part IV. Unified Text Management and Analysis System.
This last part consists
of Chapter 20 where we attempt to discuss how all the techniques discussed
in this book can be conceptually integrated in an operator-based unified
framework, and thus potentially implemented in a general unified system
for text management and analysis that can be useful for supporting a wide
range of different applications. This part also serves as a roadmap for further
extension of META to provide effective and general high-level support for
various applications and provides guidance on how META may be integrated
with many other related existing toolkits, including particularly search engine
systems, database systems, natural language processing toolkits, machine
learning toolkits, and data mining toolkits.
Due to our attempt to treat all the topics from a practical perspective, most
of the discussions of the concepts and techniques in the book are informal and
intuitive. To satisfy the needs of some readers that might be interested in deeper
understanding of some topics, the book also includes an appendix with notes to
provide a more detailed and rigorous explanation of a few important topics.
1.4
How to Use this Book
Due to the extremely broad scope of the topics that we would like to cover, we have
to make many tradeoffs between breadth and depth in coverage. When making
