434
Chapter 19
Joint Analysis of Text and Structured Data
context for analyzing the text data. The output that we want to generate is the topics
whose coverage in the text stream has strong correlations with the time series. That
is, whenever the topic is mentioned frequently in the text stream, the time series
variable tends to have higher (or lower) values.
We call these topics causal topics since they can potentially explain the cause of
fluctuation of the time series and offer insights for humans to further analyze the
topics for better understanding of the time series. They can also be useful features
for predicting time series.
Intuitively, the output is similar to what we generate by using a topic model,
but with an important difference. In regular topic modeling, our goal is to discover
topics that best explain the content in the text data, but in our setup of discovering
causal topics, the topics to be discovered should not only be semantically meaning-
ful and coherent (as in the case of regular topic modeling), but also be correlated
with the external time series.
To solve this problem, a natural idea is to apply a model such as CPLSA to our
text stream so as to discover a number of topics along with their coverage over time.
This would allow us to obtain a time series for each topic representing its coverage
in the text such as the temporal trends shown in Figure 19.7. We can then choose
the topics from this set that have the strongest correlation with the external time
series.
However, this approach is not optimal because the content of the topics would
have been discovered solely based on the text data (e.g., maximizing the likelihood
function) without consideration of the time series at all. Indeed, the discovered
topics would tend to be the major topics that explain the text data well (as they
should be), but they are not necessarily correlated with time series. Even if we
choose the best ones from them, the most correlated topics might still have a low
correlation, and thus not be very useful from the perspective of discovering causal
topics.
One way to improve this simple approach is to use time series context to not
only select the topics with the highest correlations with the time series, but also
influence the content of topics. One approach is called Iterative Causal Topic
Modeling, shown in Figure 19.15.
The idea of this approach is to do an iterative adjustment of topics discovered
by topic models using time series to induce a prior. Specifically, as shown in
Figure 19.15, we first take the text stream as input and apply regular topic modeling
to generate a number of topics (four shown here). Next, we use the external time
series to assess which topic is more causally related (correlated) with the external
time series by using a causality measure such as Granger Test. For example, in this
