40
Chapter 3
Text Data Understanding
of natural language than semantic analysis is thus to further understand the
purpose in communication.
Discourse analysis.
Discourse analysis is needed when a large chunk of text
with multiple sentences is to be analyzed; in such a case, the connections
between these sentences must be considered and the analysis of an individual
sentence must be placed in the appropriate context involving other sentences.
In Figure 3.1, we show what is involved in understanding a very simple English
sentence “A dog is chasing a boy on the playground.” The lexical analysis in this case
involves determining the syntactic categories (parts of speech) of all the words (for
example, dog is a noun and chasing is a verb). Syntactic analysis is to determine that
a and boy form a noun phrase. So do the and playground, and on the playground is a
prepositional phrase. Semantic analysis is to map noun phrases to entities and verb
phrases to relations so as to obtain a formal representation of the meaning of the
sentence. For example, the noun phrase a boy can be mapped to a semantic entity
denoting a boy (i.e., b1), and a dog to an entity denoting a dog (i.e., d1). The verb
phrase can be mapped to a relation predicate chasing(d1,b1,p1) as shown in
the figure. Note that with this level of understanding, one may also infer additional
information based on any relevant common sense knowledge. For example, if we
assume that if someone is being chased, he or she may be scared, we could infer
that the boy being chased (b1) may be scared. Finally, pragmatic analysis might
further reveal that the person who said this sentence might intend to request an
action, such as reminding the owner of the dog to take the dog back.
While it is possible to derive a clear semantic representation for a simple sen-
tence like the one shown in Figure 3.1, it is in general very challenging to do this
kind of analysis for unrestricted natural language text. The main reason for this
difficulty is because natural language is designed to make human communication
efficient; this is in contrast with a programming language which is designed to
facilitate computer understanding. Specifically, there are two reasons why NLP is
very difficult. (1) We omit a lot of “common sense” knowledge in natural language
communication because we assume the hearer or reader possesses such knowledge
(thus there’s no need to explicitly communicate it). (2) We keep a lot of ambiguities,
which we assume the hearer/reader knows how to resolve (thus there’s no need to
waste words to clarify them). As a result, natural language text is full of ambiguity,
and resolving ambiguity would generally involve reasoning with a large amount of
common-sense knowledge, which is a general difficult challenge in artificial intel-
