xvi
Preface
directly expressed in text data. For example, it is now the norm for people to tap into
opinionated text data such as product reviews, forum discussions, and social media
text to obtain opinions. Once again, due to the overwhelming amount of informa-
tion, people need intelligent software tools to help discover relevant knowledge for
optimizing decisions or helping them complete their tasks more efficiently. While
the technology for supporting text mining is not yet as mature as search engines
for supporting text access, significant progress has been made in this area in re-
cent years, and specialized text mining tools have now been widely used in many
application domains. The subtitle of this book suggests that we cover two major
topics, information retrieval and text mining. These two topics roughly correspond
to the techniques needed to build the two types of application systems discussed
above (i.e., search engines and text analytics systems), although the separation of
the two is mostly artificial and only meant to help provide a high-level structure for
the book, and a sophisticated application system likely would use many techniques
from both topic areas.
In contrast to structured data, which conform to well-defined schemas and are
thus relatively easy for computers to handle, text has less explicit structure so
the development of intelligent software tools discussed above requires computer
processing to understand the content encoded in text. The current technology of
naturallanguageprocessinghasnotyetreachedapointtoenableacomputertopre-
cisely understand natural language text (a main reason why humans often should
be involved in the loop), but a wide range of statistical and heuristic approaches
to management and analysis of text data have been developed over the past few
decades. They are usually very robust and can be applied to analyze and manage
text data in any natural language, and about any topic. This book intends to provide
a systematic introduction to many of these approaches, with an emphasis on cov-
ering the most useful knowledge and skills required to build a variety of practically
useful text information systems.
This book is primarily based on the materials that the authors have used for
teaching a course on the topic of text data management and analysis (i.e., CS410
Text Information Systems) at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, as
well as the two Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) on “Text Retrieval and
Search Engines” and “Text Mining and Analytics” taught by the first author on
Coursera in 2015. Most of the materials in the book directly match those of these
two MOOCs with also similar structures of topics. As such, the book can be used as
a main reference book for any of these two MOOCs.
Information Retrieval (IR) is a relatively mature field and there are no short-
age of good textbooks on IR; for example, the most recent ones include Modern
Information Retrieval: The Concepts and Technology behind Search by Baeza-Yates
