284
Chapter 14
Text Clustering
the centroids are recomputed to improve the centroids’ positions. This centroid
reassignment step is marked as (Max.) in the pseudocode. Thus, frames (c) and (d)
represent one iteration of the algorithm which leads to improved centroids. Frames
(e) further shows how the algorithm can continue to obtain improved boundaries,
which in turn would lead to further improved centroids.
When a document is represented as a term vector (as discussed in Chapter 6),
and a Euclidean distance function is used, the K-means algorithm can be shown
to minimize an objective function that computes the average distances of all the
data points in a cluster to the centroid of the cluster. The algorithm is also known to
converge to a local minimum, but not guaranteed to converge to a global minimum.
Thus, multiple trials are generally needed in order to obtain a good local minimum.
TheK-meansalgorithmcanberepeatedlyappliedtodividethedatasetgradually
into smaller and smaller clusters, thus creating a hierarchy of clusters similar
to what we can achieve with the agglomerative hierarchical clustering algorithm.
Thus both agglomerative hierarchical clustering and K-means can be used for
hierarchical clustering; they complement each other in the sense that K-means
constructs the hierarchy by incrementally dividing the whole set of data (a top-down
strategy), while agglomerative hierarchical clustering constructs the hierarchy by
incrementally merging data points (a bottom-up strategy). Note that although in
its basic form, agglomerative hierarchical clustering generates a binary tree, it can
easily adapted to generate more than two branches by merging more than two
groups into a cluster at each iteration. Similarly, if we only allow a binary tree, then
we also do not have to set K in the K-means algorithm for creating a hierarchy.
14.3
Term Clustering
The goal of term clustering is quite similar to document clustering; we wish to find
related terms. By “related,” we usually mean words that have a similar semantic
meaning. For example, soccer and basketball are related in the sense that they
are both sports. Similarly, evaluation and assessment are related since they are
synonyms.
In this section we will refer to “terms” and “words” interchangeably, though keep
in mind we don’t necessarily only have to cluster words. We commonly use this
example since it is quite straightforward to imagine. The techniques we describe
in this section will generally work for any sequence of features, whether they are
words or parse tree fragments. It is important to keep in mind, however, that
the algorithms we discuss were designed for use on words in most cases. It’s
also important to note that in some forms of term “clustering,” we only receive
