8
Chapter 1
Introduction
generally only does minimum analysis of text data sufficient for matching
relevant information with a user’s information need, and the original infor-
mation items (e.g., web pages) are often delivered to the user in their original
form, though summaries of the delivered items are often provided. From the
perspective of text analysis, a user would generally need to read the informa-
tion items to further digest and exploit the delivered information.
KnowledgeAcquisition(TextAnalysis).
Thiscapabilityenablesausertoacquire
useful knowledge encoded in the text data that is not easy for a user to obtain
without synthesizing and analyzing a relatively large portion of the data. In
this case, a TIS can analyze a large amount of text data to discover interesting
patterns buried in text. A TIS with the capability of knowledge acquisition
can be referred to as an analysis engine. For example, while a search engine
can return relevant reviews of a product to a user, an analysis engine would
enable a user to obtain directly the major positive or negative opinions about
the product and to compare opinions about multiple similar products. A
TIS offering the capability of knowledge acquisition generally would have to
analyze text data in more detail and synthesize information from multiple
text documents, discover interesting patterns, and create new information or
knowledge.
Text Organization.
This capability enables a TIS to annotate a collection of text
documents with meaningful (topical) structures so that scattered informa-
tion can be connected and a user can navigate in the information space by
following the structures. While such structures may be regarded as “knowl-
edge” acquired from the text data, and thus can be directly useful to users,
in general, they are often only useful for facilitating either information ac-
cess or knowledge acquisition, or both. In this sense, the capability of text
organization plays a supporting role in a TIS to make information access and
knowledge acquisition more effective. For example, the added structures can
allow a user to search with constraints on structures or browse by following
structures. The structures can also be leveraged to perform detailed analysis
with consideration of constraints on structures.
Information access can be further classified into two modes: pull and push. In
the pull mode, the user takes initiative to “pull” the useful information out from
the system; in this case, the system plays a passive role and waits for a user to
make a request, to which the system would then respond with relevant information.
This mode of information access is often very useful when a user has an ad hoc
