12
Chapter 1
Introduction
Categorization.
Classify a text object into one or several of the predefined cat-
egories where the categories can vary depending on applications. The cat-
egorization component in a TIS can annotate text objects with all kinds of
meaningful categories, thus enriching the representation text data, which
further enables more effective and deeper text analysis. The categories can
also be used for organizing text data and facilitating text access. Subject cate-
gorizers that classify a text article into one or multiple subject categories and
sentiment taggers that classify a sentence into positive, negative, or neutral in
sentiment polarity are both specific examples of a text categorization system.
Summarization.
Take one or multiple text documents, and generate a concise
summary of the essential content. A summary reduces human effort in digest-
ing text information and may also improve the efficiency in text mining. The
summarization component of a TIS is called a summarizer. News summarizer
and opinion summarizer are both examples of a summarizer.
Topic Analysis.
Take a set of documents and extract and analyze topics in them.
Topics directly facilitate digestion of text data by users and support browsing
of text data. When combined with the companion non-textual data such as
time, location, authors, and other meta data, topic analysis can generate
many interesting patterns such as temporal trends of topics, spatiotemporal
distributions of topics, and topic profiles of authors.
Information Extraction.
Extract entities, relations of entities or other “knowl-
edge nuggets” from text. The information extraction component of a TIS en-
ables construction of entity-relation graphs. Such a knowledge graph is useful
in multiple ways, including support of navigation (along edges and paths of
the graph) and further application of graph mining algorithms to discover
interesting entity-relation patterns.
Clustering.
Discover groups of similar text objects (e.g., terms, sentences, doc-
uments, . . . ). The clustering component of a TIS plays an important role in
helping users explore an information space. It uses empirical data to create
meaningful structures that can be useful for browsing text objects and ob-
taining a quick understanding of a large text data set. It is also useful for
discovering outliers by identifying the items that do not form natural clusters
with other items.
Visualization.
Visually display patterns in text data. The visualization compo-
nent is important for engaging humans in the process of discovering inter-
esting patterns. Since humans are very good at recognizing visual patterns,
