74
Chapter 5
Overview of Text Data Access
Push mode
(long-term)
Pull mode
(short-term)
TIS access
modes
Browsing
Querying
Figure 5.1
The dichotomy of text information access modes.
In pull mode, the user initiates the access process to find the relevant text data,
typically by using a search engine. This mode of text access is essential when a user
has an ad hoc information need, i.e., a temporary information need that might
disappear once the need is satisfied. In such a case, the user can use a query to
find relevant information with a search engine. For example, a user may have a
need to buy a product and thus be interested in retrieving all the relevant opinions
about candidate products; after the user has purchased the product, the user would
generally no longer need such information. Another example is that during the
process of analyzing social media data to understand opinions about an emerging
event, the analyst may also decide to explore information about a particular entity
related to the event (e.g., a person), which can also trigger a search activity.
While querying is the most common way of accessing text data in the pull mode,
browsingisanothercomplementarywayofaccessingtextdatainthepullmode, and
can be very useful when a user does not know how to formulate an effective query,
or finds it inconvenient to enter a keyword query (e.g., through a smartphone), or
simply wants to explore a topic with no fixed goal. Indeed, when searching the Web,
users tend to mix querying and browsing (e.g., while traversing through hyperlinks).
In general, we may regard querying and browsing as two complementary ways
of finding relevant information in the information space. Their relation can be
understood by making an analogy between information seeking and sightseeing
in a physical world. When a tourist knows the exact address of an attraction, the
tourist can simply take a taxi directly to the attraction; this is similar to when a
user knows exactly what he or she is looking for and can formulate a query with the
