6
Retrieval Models
In this chapter, we introduce the two main information retrieval models: vector
space and query likelihood, which are among the most effective and practically
useful retrieval models. We begin with a brief overview of retrieval models in general
and then discuss the two basic models, i.e., the vector space model and the query
likelihood model afterward.
6.1
Overview
Over many decades, researchers have designed various different kinds of retrieval
models which fall into different categories (see Zhai [2008] for a detailed review).
First, one family of the models are based on the similarity idea. Basically, we assume
that if a document is more similar to the query than another document is, we would
say the first document is more relevant than the second one. So in this case, the
ranking function is defined as the similarity between the query and the document.
One well-known example of this case is the vector space model [Salton et al. 1975],
which we will cover more in detail later in this chapter.
The second set of models are called probabilistic retrieval models [Lafferty and
Zhai 2003]. In this family of models, we follow a very different strategy. We assume
that queries and documents are all observations from random variables, and we
assume there is a binary random variable called R (with a value of either 1 or 0) to
indicate whether a document is relevant to a query. We then define the score of a
document with respect to a query as the probability that this random variable R is
equal to 1 given a particular document and query. There are different cases of such a
general idea. One is the classic probabilistic model, which dates back to work done
in the 1960s and 1970s [Maron and Kuhns 1960, Robertson and Sparck Jones 1976],
another is the language modeling approach [Ponte and Croft 1998], and yet another
is the divergence-from-randomness model [Amati and Van Rijsbergen 2002]. We
will cover a particular language modeling approach called query likelihood retrieval
model in detail later in this chapter. One of the most effective retrieval models
