94
Chapter 6
Retrieval Models
This is only one of the many different ways of computing the similarity. So, we’ve
defined the dimensions, the vector space, and the similarity function; we finally
have the simplest instantiation of the vector space model! It’s based on the bit
vector representation, dot product similarity, and bag of words instantiation. Now
we can finally implement this ranking function using a programming language and
then rank documents in our corpus given a particular query.
We’ve gone through the process of modeling the retrieval problem using a vector
space model. Then, we made assumptions about how we place vectors in the vector
space and how we define the similarity. In the end, we’ve got a specific retrieval
function shown in Figure 6.3. The next step is to think about whether this individual
function actually makes sense. Can we expect this function will actually perform
well? It’s worth thinking about the value that we are calculating; in the end, we’ve
got a number, but what does this number mean? Please take a few minutes to think
about that before proceeding to the next section.
6.3.2
Behavior of the Bit Vector Representation
In order to assess whether this simplest vector space model actually works well,
let’s look at the example in Figure 6.4.
This figure shows some sample documents and a simple query. The query is
news about presidential campaign. For this example, we will examine five documents
from the corpus that cover different terms in the query. You may realize that some
documents are probably relevant and others probably not relevant. If we ask you to
rank these documents, how would you rank them? Your answer (as the user) is the
ideal ranking, R′(q). Most users would agree that d4 and d3 are probably better than
d1
d4 +
d3 +
d1 –
d2 –
d5 –
… news about …
d2
… news about organic food campaign …
d3
… news of presidential campaign …
d4
… news of presidential campaign …
… presidential candidate …
d5
… news of organic food campaign …
campaign … campaign … campaign …
Query = “news about presidential campaign”
Ideal ranking?
Figure 6.4
Application of the bit vector VS model in a simple example.
