10
Chapter 1
Introduction
finding algorithms to generate semantically more meaningful patterns than di-
rectly working on word or string-level representations of text. Due to our em-
phasis on covering general and robust techniques that can work for all kinds
of text data without much manual effort, we mostly adopt the data mining view
in this book since information extraction techniques tend to be more language-
specific and generally require much manual effort. However, it is important to
stress that information extraction is an essential component in any text infor-
mation system that attempts to support deeper knowledge discovery or semantic
analysis.
Applications of text mining can be classified as either direct applications, where
the discovered knowledge would be directly consumed by users, or indirect appli-
cations, where the discovered knowledge isn’t necessarily directly useful to a user,
but can indirectly help a user through better support of information access. Knowl-
edge acquisition can also be further classified based on what knowledge is to be
discovered. However, due to the wide range of variations of the “knowledge,” it is
impossible to use a small number of categories to cover all the variations. Neverthe-
less, we can still identify a few common categories which we cover in this book. For
example, one type of knowledge that a TIS can discover is a set of topics or subtopics
buried in text data, which can serve as a concise summary of the major content in
the text data. Another type of knowledge that can be acquired from opinionated
text is the overall sentiment polarity of opinions about a topic.
1.2
Conceptual Framework for Text Information Systems
Conceptually, a text information system may consist of several modules, as illus-
trated in Figure 1.3.
First, there is a need for a module of content analysis based on natural language
processing techniques. This module allows a TIS to transform raw text data into
more meaningful representations that can be more effectively matched with a
user’squeryinthecaseofasearchengine, andmoreeffectivelyprocessedingeneral
in text analysis. Current NLP techniques mostly rely on statistical machine learning
enhanced with limited linguistic knowledge with variable depth of understanding
of text data; shallow techniques are robust, but deeper semantic analysis is only
feasible for very limited domains. Some TIS capabilities (e.g., summarization) tend
to require deeper NLP than others (e.g., search). Most text information systems use
very shallow NLP, where text would simply be represented as a “bag of words,” where
words are basic units for representation and the order of words is ignored (although
the counts of words are retained). However, a more sophisticated representation is
