80
Chapter 5
Overview of Text Data Access
a user would still have to sift through a long list of documents and read them in
detail to fully digest the knowledge buried in text data in order to perform their task
at hand. The techniques discussed later in this book can be exploited to help users
digest the found information quickly or directly analyze a large amount of text data
to reveal useful and actionable knowledge that can be used to optimize decision
making or help a user finish a task.
5.4
Text Retrieval vs. Database Retrieval
It is useful to make a comparison of the problem of TR and the similar problem of
database retrieval. Both retrieval tasks are to help users find relevant information,
but due to the difference in the data managed by these two tasks, there are many
important differences.
First, the data managed by a search engine and a database system are different.
In databases, the data are structured where each field has a clearly defined meaning
according to a schema. Thus, the data can be viewed as a table with well-specified
columns. For example, in a bank database system, one field may be customer
names, another may be the address, and yet another may be the balance of each
type of account. In contrast, the data managed by a search engine are unstructured
text which can be difficult for computers to understand.1 Thus, even if a sentence
says a person lives in a particular address, it remains difficult for the computer to
answer a query about the address of a person in response to a keyword query since
there is no simple defined structure to free text. Therefore structured data are often
easier to manage and analyze since they conform to a clearly defined schema where
the meaning of each field is well defined.
Second, a consequence of the difference in the data is that the queries that
can be supported by the two are also different. A database query clearly specifies
the constraints on the fields of the data table, and thus the expected retrieval
results (answers to the query) are very well specified with no ambiguity. In a search
engine, however, the queries are generally keyword queries, which are only a vague
specification of what documents should be returned. Even if the computer can fully
understand the semantics of natural language text, it is still often the case that the
user’s information need is vague due to the lack of complete knowledge about the
information to be found (which is often the reason why the user wants to find the
information in the first place!). For example, in the case of searching for relevant
1. Although common parlance refers to text as unstructured with a meaningful contrast with
relational database structuring, it employs a narrow sense of “structure.” For example, from a
linguistics perspective, grammar provides well-defined structure. To study this matter further,
see the 5S (societies, scenarios, spaces, structures, and streams) works by Fox et al. [2012]
