116
Chapter 6
Retrieval Models
would be zero. Clearly, this causes a problem because it would cause all these
documents to have zero probability of generating this query.
While it’s fine to have a zero probability for d2 which is not relevant, it’s not okay
to have zero probability for d3 and d4 because now we no longer can distinguish
them. In fact, we can’t even distinguish them from d2. Clearly, that’s not desirable.
When one has such a result, we should think about what has caused this problem,
examining what assumptions have been made as we derive this ranking function.
We have made an assumption that every query word must be drawn from the
document in the user’s mind—in order to fix this, we have to assume that the user
could have drawn a word not necessarily from the document. So let’s consider an
improved model.
Instead of drawing a word from the document, let’s imagine that the user would
actually draw a word from a document language model as depicted in Figure 6.22.
Here, we assume that this document is generated by using this unigram language
model, which doesn’t necessarily assign zero probability for the word update. In
fact, we assume this model does not assign zero probability for any word. If we’re
thinking this way, then the generative process is a bit different: the user has this
model (distribution of words) in mind instead of a particular ideal document,
although the model still has to be estimated based on the documents in our corpus.
The user can generate the query using a similar process. They may pick a word
such as presidential and another word such as campaign. The difference is that now
we can pick a word like update even though it doesn’t occur in the document. This
“campaign”
“presidential”
p(q = “presidential campaign”|d =
)
… news of presidential
campaign … presidential
candidate …
“presidential”
campaign
update
“update”
…
presidential 0.2
campaign 0.1
news 0.01
candidate 0.02
…
update 0.00001
…
Figure 6.22
Computing the probability of a query given a document using a document language
model.
