4.2 Setting up META
59
META’s modularity supports exploration, encourages contributions, and in-
creases visibility to its inner workings. These facts make it a perfect companion
toolkit for this book. As mentioned at the beginning of the chapter, readers will
follow exercises that add real functionality to the toolkit. After reading this book
and learning about text data management and analysis, it is envisioned readers
continue to modify META to suit their text information needs, building upon their
newfound knowledge.
Finally, since META will always be free and open-source, readers as a community
can jointly contribute to its functionality, benefiting all those involved.
4.2
Setting up META
All future sections in this book will assume the reader has META downloaded and
installed. Here, we’ll show how to set up META.
META has both a website with tutorials and an online repository on GitHub.
To actually download the toolkit, users will check it out with the version control
software git in their command line terminal after installing any necessary prereq-
uisites.
The META website contains instructions for downloading and setting up the
software for a particular system configuration. At the time of writing this book, both
Linux and Mac OS are supported. Visit https://meta-toolkit.org/setup-guide.html
and follow the instructions for the desired platform. We will assume the reader has
performed the steps listed in the setup guide and has a working version of META for
all exercises and demonstrations in this book.
There are two steps that are not mentioned in the setup guide. The first is to
make sure the reader has the version of META that was current when this book was
published. To ensure that the commands and examples sync up with the software
the reader has downloaded, we will ensure that META is checked out with version
2.2.0. Run the following command inside the meta/ directory:
git reset --hard v2.2.0
The second step is to make sure that any necessary model files are also down-
loaded. These are available on the META releases page: https://github.com/meta-
toolkit/meta/releases/tag/v2.2.0. By default, the model files should be placed in the
meta/build/ directory, but you can place them anywhere as long as the paths in
the config file are updated.
