242
Chapter 12
Overview of Text Data Analysis
by such subjective sensors, making text data more similar to other kinds of data
generated by objective machine sensors and enabling us to naturally discuss how
to jointly analyze text and non-text data together.
However, we must point out that the separation of the text data access stage and
text data analysis stage, thus also the separation of Part II and Part III in the book, is
somewhat artificial since in a sophisticated application, these two stages are often
interleaved, and an iterative process involving both stages is often followed. For
example, after a user has zoomed into a set of relevant documents and performed
an analysis task (such as clustering of documents into topical clusters), the user
may also choose to further search inside a particular cluster to further zoom into a
specific subset of documents, and additional analysis operators such as sentiment
analysis may then be applied to this newly obtained smaller subset. Moreover,
techniques from both Part II and Part III can often be combined to provide more
useful functions to users (e.g., summarization can be naturally combined with a
search engine or recommender system), and they may enhance each other (e.g., the
term weighitng methods discussed in Part II are also very useful for many tasks such
as clustering, categorization, and summarization in Part III, and clustering in Part
III can be useful for improving retrieval algorthm covered in Part II). Nevertheless,
we have chosen to separate them so as to allow the readers to see a meaningful
overall picture of all the techniques we covered and their high-level relations.
12.1
Motivation: Applications of Text Data Analysis
The importance of text data to our lives can be easily seen from the fact that we
all process a lot of text data on a daily basis. In most cases, however, the com-
puters only play a minor role in the entire process of making use of text data; for
example, we use search engines frequently, but once we find relevant documents,
the further processing of the found documents is generally done manually. Such
a manual process is acceptable when the amount of text data to be processed is
small, the application task does not demand a fast response, and when we have
the time to digest text data. However, as the amount of text data increases, the
manual processing of text data would not be feasible or acceptable, especially for
time-critical applications. Thus, it becomes increasingly essential to develop ad-
vanced text analysis tools to help us digest and make use of text data effectively and
efficiently.
In general, we may distinguish two kinds of text analysis applications. One kind
is those that can replace our current manual labor in digesting text content; they
help improve our productivity, but do not do anything beyond what we humans can
