3.2 NLP and Text Information Systems
43
empirical uses of language, and rely solely on labeled training data by humans and
application of machine learning techniques.
While linguistic knowledge is always useful, today, the most advanced natural
language processing techniques tend to rely on heavy use of statistical machine
learning techniques with linguistic knowledge only playing a somewhat secondary
role. These statistical NLP techniques are successful for some of the NLP tasks. Part
of speech tagging is a relatively easy task, and state-of-the-art POS taggers may have
a very high accuracy (above 97% on news data). Parsing is more difficult, though
partial parsing can probably be done with reasonably high accuracy (e.g., above
90% for recognizing noun phrases)1.
However, full structure parsing remains very difficult, mainly because of ambi-
guities. Semantic analysis is even more difficult, only successful for some aspects
of analysis, notably information extraction (recognizing named entities such as
names of people and organization, and relations between entities such as who
works in which organization), word sense disambiguation (distinguishing different
senses of a word in different contexts of usage), and sentiment analysis (recogniz-
ing positive opinions about a product in a product review). Inferences and speech
act analysis are generally only feasible in very limited domains.
In summary, only “shallow” analysis of natural language processing can be done
for arbitrary text and in a robust manner; “deep” analysis tends not to scale up well
or be robust enough for analyzing unrestricted text. In many cases, a significant
amount of training data (created by human labeling) must be available in order to
achieve reasonable accuracy.
3.2
NLP and Text Information Systems
Because of the required robustness and efficiency in TIS applications, in general,
robust shallow NLP techniques tend to be more useful than fragile deep analysis
techniques, which may hurt application performance due to inevitable analysis
errors caused by the general difficulty of NLP. The limited value of deep NLP for
some TIS tasks is further due to various ways to bypass the more difficult task of
precisely understanding the meaning of natural language text and directly optimize
the task performance. Thus, while improved NLP techniques should in general
enable improved TIS task performance, lack of NLP capability isn’t necessarily a
major barrier for some application tasks, notably text retrieval, which is a relatively
1. These performance numbers were based on a specific data set, so they may not generalize well
even within the same domain.
