176
Chapter 9
Search Engine Evaluation
Recall
System A
System A
System B
System B
Ideal system
Precision
Recall
Precision
Which is better?
Figure 9.5
Comparison of two PR curves. (Courtesy of Marti Hearst)
better. The problem is that we might see a case like the right graph—this actually
happens quite often where the two curves cross each other. In this case, which one
is better? This is a real problem that you might actually have to face. Suppose you
build a search engine and you have an old algorithm that’s shown here in blue as
system B. Then, you have come up with a new idea and test it with results shown in
red as system A.
The question is, is your new method better than the old method? Or, more
practically, do you have to replace the algorithm that you’re already using in your
searchenginewithanothernewalgorithm?Ifyoumakethereplacement, thesearch
engine would behave like system A here, whereas if you don’t do that, it will be like
system B. Now, some users might like system A, while other users might like system
B. So what’s the difference here? Well, the difference is just that—in the low level
of recall, system B is better, but in the high recall region, system A is better. That
means it depends on whether the user cares about high recall, or low recall with
high precision. Imagine someone is just going to check out what’s happening today
and wants to find out something relevant in the news. Which system is better for
that task? In this case, system B is better because the user is unlikely to examine
many results, i.e., the user doesn’t care about high recall, only the first few results
being useful. On the other hand, if a user wants to determine whether an idea has
been thought of before, they will want to emphasize high recall so that they see as
many relevant documents as possible and don’t miss the chance to find the idea.
Therefore, those users would favor system A.
But this brings us back to the original question: which one is better? Again, this
actually depends on the users, or more precisely, the users’ task. You may not
necessarily be able to come up with one number that would accurately depict
the performance. You have to look at the overall picture. Despite this, it can be
