6
Chapter 1
Introduction
Once we obtain a small set of most relevant text data, we would need to further
analyze the text data to help users digest the content and knowledge in the text
data. This is the text mining step where the goal is to further discover knowledge
and patterns from text data so as to support a user’s task. Furthermore, due to the
need for assessing trustworthiness of any discovered knowledge, users generally
have a need to go back to the original raw text data to obtain appropriate context
for interpreting the discovered knowledge and verify the trustworthiness of the
knowledge, hence a search engine system, which is primarily useful for text access,
also has to be available in any text-based decision-support system for supporting
knowledge provenance. The two steps are thus conceptually interleaved, and a
full-fledged intelligent text information system must integrate both in a unified
framework.
It is worth pointing out that put in the context of “big data,” text data is very dif-
ferent from other kinds of data because it is generally produced directly by humans
and often also meant to be consumed by humans as well. In contrast, other data
tend to be machine-generated data (e.g., data collected by using all kinds of physi-
cal sensors). Since humans can understand text data far better than computers can,
involvement of humans in the process of mining and analyzing text data is abso-
lutely crucial (much more necessary than in other big data applications), and how
to optimally divide the work between humans and machines so as to optimize the
collaboration between humans and machines and maximize their “combined in-
telligence” with minimum human effort is a general challenge in all applications of
text data management and analysis. The two steps discussed above can be regarded
as two different ways for a text information system to assist humans: information
retrieval systems assist users in finding from a large collection of text data the most
relevant text data that are actually needed for solving a specific application prob-
lem, thus effectively turning big raw text data into much smaller relevant text data
that can be more easily processed by humans, while text mining application sys-
tems can assist users in analyzing patterns in text data to extract and discover useful
actionable knowledge directly useful for task completion or decision making, thus
providing more direct task support for users.
With this view, we partition the techniques covered in the book into two parts to
match the two steps shown in Figure 1.1, which are then followed by one chapter to
discuss how all the techniques may be integrated in a unified text information sys-
tem. The book attempts to provide a complete coverage of all the major concepts,
techniques, and ideas in information retrieval and text data mining from a prac-
tical viewpoint. It includes many hands-on exercises designed with a companion
software toolkit META to help readers learn how to apply techniques of information
