12.1 Motivation: Applications of Text Data Analysis
243
do. For example, automatic sorting of emails would save us a lot of time. The other
kind is those that can discover knowledge that we humans may not be able to do
even if we have “sufficient” time to read all the text data. For example, an intelligent
biomedical literature anlayzer may reveal a chain of associations of genes and
diseases by synthesizing gene-gene relations and gene-disease relations scattered
in many different research articles, thus suggesting a potential opportunity to
design drugs targeting some of the genes for treatment of a disease.
Due to the broad coverage of knowledge in text data and our reliance on text
data for communications, it is possible to imagine text analysis applications in
virtually any domain. Below are just a few specific examples that may provide some
application contexts for understanding the text analysis techniques covered in the
subsequent chapters.
One important application domain of text analysis is business intelligence. For
example, product managers may be interested in hearing customer feedback about
their products, knowing how well their products are being received as compared to
the products of competitors. This can be a good opportunity for leveraging text data
in the form of product reviews on the Web. If we can develop and master text mining
techniques to tap into such an information source to extract the knowledge and
opinions of people about these products, then we can help these product managers
gain business intelligence or gain feedback from their customers.
Another important application domain is scientific research, where timely di-
gestion of knowledge encoded in literature articles is essential. Scientists are also
interested in knowing the trends of research topics or learning about discover-
ies in fields related to their own. This problem is especially important in biology
research—different communities tend to use different terminologies, yet they’re
stating very similar problems. How can we integrate the knowledge that is covered
in different communities (using different vocabularies) to help study a particular
problem? Answering such a question speeds up scientific discovery. There are many
more such examples where we can leverage text data to discover usable knowledge
to optimize our decision-making processes.
Yet another broad category of applications is to leverage social media to opti-
mize decision making. In general, we can imagine building an intelligent sensor
system to “listen” to all the text data produced in real time, especially social me-
dia data such as tweets which report real-world events almost in real time, and
monitor interesting patterns relevant to an application. For example, perform-
ing sentiment analysis on people’s opinions about policies can help better un-
derstand society’s response to a policy and thus potentially improve the policy if
needed. Disaster response and management would benefit early discovery of any
