Exercises
235
users can be further investigated and the overall system may be adjusted to en-
sure their satisfaction. Of course, these outliers depend heavily on the evaluation
metric used, so using multiple metrics will give the most complete view of user
satisfaction.
Bibliographic Notes and Further Reading
For further reading, we suggest that the reader consult Herlocker et al. [2004],
Shani and Gunawardana [2011]. Ricci et al. [2010] is a comprehensive resource for
learning more about recommender systems in general. More information about
the beta-gamma threshold setting algorithm can be found in Zhai et al. [2000].
A description of memory-based collaborative filtering algorithm can be found in
Breese et al. [1998], which also provides a comparison of different collaborative
filtering algorithms. A more recent comparison of multiple collaborative filtering
algorithms can be found in the Cacheda et al. [2011].
Exercises
11.1. When delivering content to a user, it’s important to not deliver duplicate
information. Describe a strategy that doesn’t deliver a document to a user if it is
a duplicate. Then, describe a strategy that doesn’t deliver a document if it is too
similar to a previously delivered document. Ensure that your methods are space
efficient. That is, don’t store the full text of every document seen!
11.2. A user may be interested in a few diverse information needs; a user may
enjoy both romance movies and action movies. Does this pose any problem to a
recommendation system? If so, suggest how this issue may be addressed. If not,
explain how the existing structure of the filtering system handles this.
11.3. In the introduction to this chapter, we noted that combining content-based
filtering and collaborative filtering could yield an optimal recommender applica-
tion. Suggest some ways to combine these two methods, explaining your intuition.
11.4. Beta-gamma thresholding compares search engine scores to a cutoff param-
eter θ. Consider the following argument: “Using a single fixed point θ does not allow
query comparability since query scores are not normalized.” Defend or refute this
statement.
11.5. Use META’s search engine to implement beta-gamma thresholding. Use a
dataset with relevance judgements as the user preferences, and a small number of
