282
Chapter 14
Text Clustering
Algorithm 14.1
K-means clustering algorithm
Initialize K randomly selected centroids
while not converged do
Assign each document to the cluster whose centroid is closest to
it using sim(.) (Ex.)
Recompute centroids of the new clusters found from previous step (Max.)
end while
Average-link is a compromise between the two previous measures. As its name
implies, it takes the smallest average distance between two clusters.
Both single-link and complete-link are sensitive to outliers since they rely on only
the similarity of one pair of documents. Average-link is essentially a group decision,
making it less sensitive to outliers. Of course, as with most methods discussed
in this book, the specific application will determine which method is preferred.
In fact, it may even be useful to try out different document-document similarity
measures combined with different cluster-cluster similarity measures to see how
the dataset is partitioned.
14.2.2
K-means
A complementary clustering method to our hierarchical algorithm is a top-down,
divisive approach. In this approach, we repeatedly apply a flat clustering algorithm
to partition the data into smaller and smaller clusters. In flat clustering, We will
start with an initial tentative clustering and iteratively improve it until we reach
some stopping criterion. Here, we represent a cluster with a centroid; a centroid is
a special document that represents all other documents in its cluster, usually as an
average of all its members’ values.
The K-means algorithm1 sets K centroids and iteratively reassigns documents
to each one until the change in cluster assignment is small or nonexistent. This
technique is described in the algorithm below. Let sim(.) be the chosen document-
document similarity measure.
The two steps in K-means are marked as the expectation step (Ex.) and the
maximization step (Max.); this algorithm is one instantiation of the widely found
Expectation-Maximization algorithm, commonly called just EM. We will return to
this powerful algorithmic paradigm in much more detail in Chapter 17 on topic
1. K-means is not at all related to the classification algorithm k-NN (see Chapter 15).
