Exercises
327
Bibliographic Notes and Further Reading
As mentioned in this chapter, Das and Martins [2007] is a comprehensive survey
on summarization techniques. Additionally, Nenkova and McKeown [2012] is a
valuable read. For applications, latent aspect rating analysis [Wang et al. 2010],
[Wang et al. 2011] is a form of summarization applied to product reviews. We
mention this particular application in more detail in Chapter 18. A typical extractive
summarizer is presented in Radev et al. [2004], a typical abstractive summarizer
is presented in Ganesan et al. [2010], and evaluation suggestions are presented
in Steinberger and Jezek [2009]. The MMR algorithm was originally described
inCarbonellandGoldstein[1998].ForadvancedNLG(naturallanguagegeneration)
techniques, a good starting point is Reiter and Dale [2000].
Exercises
16.1. Do you think one summarization method (extractive or abstractive) would
perform better on a small dataset? How about a large dataset? Justify your reason-
ing.
16.2. Explain how you can improve the passage detection by looking beyond only
the adjacent sentences. How would you implement this?
16.3. Write a basic passage segmenter in META. As input, take a document and
extract the sentences into a vector with a built-in tokenizer. Segment the vector
into passages using a similarity algorithm.
16.4. Now that you have a document segmented into passages, use META to set
up a search engine over each passage, where you treat passages as individual
documents. Ensure that you have enough sentences per passage. You many need
to tweak your previous answer to achieve this.
16.5. With your passage search engine, find a representative sentence from each
passage to create a summary for the original document.
16.6. Use META’s language model to learn a distribution of words over a document
you wish to summarize.
16.7. Add a generate function to the language model. It should take a context
(n − 1 terms) and generate the nth term. Use the calculation described in this
chapter to generate the next word.
16.8. Summarize the input document using the generator. Experiment with dif-
ferent stopping criteria. Which seems to work the best?
