172
Chapter 9
Search Engine Evaluation
Set can be deﬁned by a cutoff (e.g., precision @ 10 docs)
Relevant
Doc
Retrieved
Action
Not retrieved
a
b
c
d
Not relevant
Precision = 
Ideal results: precision = recall = 1.0
In reality, high recall tends to be
associated with low precision
a
—
a + c
Recall = 
a
—
a + b
Figure 9.2
Basic measures: precision and recall.
So what would be an ideal result? If precision and recall are both 1.0, that
means all the results that we returned are relevant, and we didn’t miss any relevant
documents; there’s no single non-relevant document returned. In reality, however,
high recall tends to be associated with low precision; as you go down the list to
try to get as many relevant documents as possible, you tend to include many non-
relevant documents, which decreases the precision. We often are interested in the
precision up to ten documents for web search. This means we look at the top ten
results and see how many documents among them are actually relevant. This is a
very meaningful measure, because it tells us how many relevant documents a user
can expect to see on the first page of search results (where there are typically ten
results).
In the next section, we’ll see how to combine precision and recall into one score
that captures both measures.
9.2.2
The F Measure: Combining Precision and Recall
There tends to be a tradeoff between precision and recall, so it is natural to combine
them.OnemetricthatisoftenusediscalledtheFβ measure, displayedinFigure9.3.
In the case where β = 1, it’s a harmonic mean of precision and recall.
Considering the parameter β and after some simplification, we can see the F
measure may be written in the form on the right-hand side of the figure. Often, β
set to one, which indicates an equal preference towards precision and recall. In the
case where β = 1, we have a special case of the F measure, often called F1. This is
a popular measure that is often used as a combined precision and recall score. If β
is not equal to one, it controls the emphasis between precision and recall. It’s easy
