Chapter 18
Opinion Mining and Sentiment Analysis
391
Holder
Target
Target
Harder to mine and analyze: Need deeper NLP
A Sentence in the News (Implicit Holder and Target)
Context
Negative
“… In an effort to get residents to wake up and pay attention to
Hurricane Sandy,  the  governor of Connecticut  just said that
Sandy might be as bad as the worst hurricane ever to hit New
England—the  hurricane of 1938.  …”
Figure 18.3
A sentence from news with sentiment. (Courtesy of © 2012 Henry Blodget / Business
Insider)
Let’s take a simple example of a product review. In this case, we already know the
opinion holder and the target. When the review is posted, we can usually extract this
information. Additional understanding by analyzing the user-generated text adds
value to mining the opinions.
Figure 18.3 shows a sentence extracted from a news article. In this case, we have
an implicit holder and an implicit target since we don’t automatically know this
information. This makes the task harder. As humans, we can identify the opinion
holder as the governor of Connecticut. We can also identify the target, Hurricane
Sandy, but there is also another target mentioned which is the hurricane of 1938.
What’s the opinion? There is negative sentiment indicated by words like bad and
worst. We can also identify context, which is New England. All these elements must
be extracted by using NLP techniques. Analyzing the sentiment in news is still quite
difficult; it’s more difficult than the analysis of opinions in product reviews.
There are also some other interesting variations. First, let’s think about the
opinion holder. The holder could be an individual or it could be group of people.
Sometimes, the opinion is from a committee or from a whole country of people.
Opinion targets will vary greatly as well; they can be about one entity, a particular
person, a particular product, a particular policy, and so on. An opinion could also
only be about one attribute of a particular entity. For example, it could just be
