14
Text Clustering
Clustering is a natural problem in exploratory text analysis. In its most basic sense,
clustering (i.e., grouping) objects together lets us discover some inherent structure
in our corpus by collecting similar objects. These objects could be documents,
sentences, or words. We could cluster search engine queries, search engine results,
and even users themselves.
Clustering is a general data mining technique very useful for exploring large data
sets. When facing a large collection of text data, clustering can reveal natural se-
mantic structures in the data in the form of multiple clusters (i.e., groups) of data
objects. The clustering results can sometimes be regarded as knowledge directly
useful in an application. For example, clustering customer emails can reveal major
customer complaints about a product. In general, the clustering results are useful
for providing an overview of the data, which is often very useful for understanding
a data set at a high-level before zooming into any specific subset of the data for fo-
cused analysis. The clustering results can also support navigation into the relevant
subsets of the data since the structures can facilitate linking of objects inside a clus-
ter and linking of related clusters. In general, clustering methods are very useful
for text mining and exploratory text analysis with widespread applications espe-
cially due to the fact that clustering algorithms are mostly unsupervised without
requiring any manual effort, and can thus be applied to any text data set.
The object types that we cluster necessitate different tasks, and this variation
leads to many interesting applications. For example, clustering of retrieval results
can be used as a result summary or as a way to remove redundant documents.
Clustering the documents in our entire corpus lets us find common underlying
themes and can give us a better understanding of the type of data it contains. Term
clustering is a powerful way to find concepts or create a thesaurus.
However, how do we formally define the problem of clustering? In particular,
what does it actually mean for an object to be in a particular cluster? Intuitively, we
