19.6 Summary
439
Top three words in signiﬁcant
topics from New York Times
tax cut 1
screen pataki guiliani
enthusiasm door symbolic
oil energy prices
news w top
pres al vice
love tucker presented
partial abortion privatization
court supreme abortion
gun control nra
Issues known to be
important in the 2000
presidential election
Text: New York Times (May 2000 – Oct. 2000)
Time series: Iowa Electronic Market
http://tippie.uiowa.edu/iem/
Figure 19.18
Sample results of causal topics discovered using Presidential Prediction Market.
(Adapted from Kim et al. [2013])
In Figure 19.18, we see some additional results from analyzing presidential
election time series. The time series data used here is from the Iowa Electronic
market, and the text data is the New York Times data from May–October 2000 that
matched at least one candidate’s name (i.e., either Bush or Gore). The goal here was
to see if we can use causal topic mining to help understand what issues mattered
in the 2000 presidential campaign and election. The results shown here are the
top three words from the most significant (causal) topics from New York Times.
Intuitively, they are indeed quite related to the campaign. The high relevance of
topics discovered is at least partly due to the use of the presidential candidate
names as an additional context (i.e., as filters), which helped eliminate a lot of non-
relevant text data. However, what is interesting is that the list does contain a few
topics that are known to be important in that presidential election, including tax
cut, oil energy, abortion, and gun control (see Kim et al. [2013] for a more detailed
discussion of the results).
19.6
Summary
In this chapter, we discussed the general problem of analyzing both structured
data and unstructured text data in a joint manner, which is needed for predictive
modeling based on big data. We specifically focused on the discussion of text-based
prediction, which is generally very useful for big data applications that involve text
data. Since text-based prediction can help us infer new knowledge about the world,
