19.1 Introduction
415
the prediction problem that we can build into the predictive model. Once we have
the predicted values for the variables, humans would be involved in taking actions
to change the world or make decisions based on these particular values.
Finally, it’s interesting that a human could be involved in controlling the sensors
to collect the most useful data for prediction. Thus, this forms a data mining loop
because as we perturb the sensors, they will collect additional new and potentially
more useful data, allowing us to improve the prediction. In this loop, humans
will recognize what additional data will need to be collected. Machines can help
humans identify what data should be collected next. In general, we want to collect
data that is most useful for learning. The study of how to identify data points that
would be most helpful for machine learning is often referred to as active learning,
which is an important subarea in machine learning.
There is a loop from data acquisition to data analysis; from data mining to
prediction of values; from actions to change the world; and finally, we observe what
happens. We can then decide what additional data have to be collected and adjust
the sensors accordingly. Analysis of the prediction errors can help reveal what
additional data we need to acquire in order to improve the accuracy of prediction.
This big picture is actually very general and can serve as a model for many important
applications of big data.
Since the focus of the book is on text data, it is useful to consider the special case
of the loop shown in Figure 19.2 where the goal is to use text data to infer values of
some other variables in the real world that may not be directly related to the text.
Such an analysis task is different from a task such as topic mining where the goal is
to directly characterize the content of text. In text-based prediction, our goal can be
to infer any information about the world. This is, of course, only possible if there
exist clues in the text data about the target variable; fortunately, this is often the
case since people report everything in text data. In many cases (e.g., stock price
prediction), the non-text data (historical stock prices) are much more effective for
prediction than text data, though text data can generally help provide additional
indicators for the prediction task.
Sometimes text data contain more useful indicators than non-text data, and
text data alone may also be sufficient for making predictions. Typically, in such
a case, the prediction is about human behavior or human preferences or opinions.
In general though, text data will be put together with non-text data.
In all cases of text-based prediction, there are two important questions. First,
what features (indicators) are most useful for the prediction task? Second, how can
we generate such effective indicators from text? For convenience, we will use the
term “feature” and “indicator” interchangeably. The first question has much to do
