Preface
xvii
and Ribeiro-Neto [2011], Information Retrieval: Implementing and Evaluating Search
Engines by B¨uttcher et al. [2010], Search Engines: Information Retrieval in Practice
by Croft et al. [2009], and Introduction to Information Retrieval by Manning et al.
[2008]. Compared with these existing books on information retrieval, our book has
a broader coverage of topics as it attempts to cover topics in both information re-
trieval and text mining, and attempts to paint a general roadmap for building a text
information system that can support both text information access and text analy-
sis. For example, it includes a detailed introduction to word association mining,
probabilistic topic modeling, and joint analysis of text and non-text data, which
are not available in any existing information retrieval books. In contrast with IR,
Text Mining (TM) is far from mature and is actually still in its infancy. Indeed, how
to define TM precisely remains an open question. As such, it appears that there is
not yet a textbook on TM. As a textbook on TM, our book provides a basic introduc-
tion to the major representative techniques for TM. By introducing TM and IR in a
unified framework, we want to emphasize the importance of integration of IR and
TM in any practical text information system since IR plays two important roles in
any TM application. The first is to enable fast reduction of the data size by filtering
out a large amount of non-relevant text data to obtain a small set of most relevant
data to a particular application problem. The second is to support an analyst to
verify and interpret any patterns discovered from text data where an analyst would
need to use search and browsing functions to reach and examine the most relevant
support data to the pattern.
Another feature that sets this book apart is the availability of a companion
toolkit for information retrieval and text mining, i.e., the META toolkit (available at
https://meta-toolkit.org/), which contains implementations of many techniques
discussed in the book. Many exercises in the book are also designed based on this
toolkit to help readers acquire practical skills of experimenting with the learned
techniques from the book and applying them to solve real-world application prob-
lems.
This book consists of four parts. Part I provides an overview of the content
covered in the book and some background knowledge needed to understand the
chapters later. Parts II and III contain the major content of the book and cover a
wide range of techniques in IR (called Text Data Access techniques) and techniques
in TM (called Text Data Analysis techniques), respectively. Part IV summarizes the
book with a unified framework for text management and analysis where many
techniques of IR and TM can be combined to provide more advanced support for
text data access and analysis with humans in the loop to control the workflow.
The required background knowledge to understand the content in this book is
minimal since the book is intended to be mostly self-contained. However, readers
