134
Chapter 7
Feedback
Results:
d1 3.5
d2 2.4
…
dk 0.5
…
Judgments:
d1 +
d2 –
d3 +
…
dk –
…
Document
collection
Query
Updated
query
Feedback
Retrieval
engine
User
Figure 7.1
How feedback is part of an information retrieval system.
You may recall that we talked about using language models to analyze word
associations by learning related words to the word computer (see Chapter 3). First,
we used computer to retrieve all the documents that contain that word. That is,
imagine the query is computer. Then, the results will be those documents that
contain computer. We take the top k results that match computer well and we
estimate term probabilities (by counting them) in this set for our topic language
model. Lastly, we use the background language model to choose the terms that
are frequent in this retrieved set but not frequent in the whole collection. If we
contrast these two ideas, what we can find is that we’ll learn some related terms to
computer. These related words can then be added to the original query to expand
the query, which helps find documents that don’t necessarily match computer, but
match other words like program and software that may not have been in the original
query.
Unfortunately, pseudo relevance feedback is not completely reliable; we have
to arbitrarily set a cutoff and hope that the ranking function is good enough to
get at least some useful documents. There is also another feedback method called
implicit feedback. In this case, we still involve users, but we don’t have to explicitly
ask them to make judgements. Instead, we are going to observe how the users
interact with the search results by observing their clickthroughs. If a user clicked
on one document and skipped another, this gives a clue about whether a document
is useful or not. We can even assume that we’re going to use only the snippet here
in a document that is displayed on the search engine results page (the text that’s
actually seen by the user). We can assume this displayed text is probably relevant
or interesting to the user since they clicked on it. This is the idea behind implicit
