10
Web Search
In this chapter, we discuss one of the most important applications of text retrieval:
web search engines. Although many information retrieval algorithms had been
developed before the web was born, it created the best opportunity to apply those
algorithms to a major application problem that everyone cares about. Naturally,
there had to be some further extensions of the classical search algorithms to fully
address new challenges encountered in web search.
First, this is a scalability challenge. How can we handle the size of the web and
ensure completeness of coverage of all its information (be it textual or not)? How
can we serve many users quickly by answering all their queries? Before the web was
born, the scale of search was relatively small, usually focused on libraries, so these
questions were not serious.
The second problem is that there is much low quality information known as
spam. Search engine optimization is the attempt to heighten a particular page’s rank
by taking advantage of how pages are scored, e.g., adding many words that are not
necessarily relevant to the actual content or creating many fake links to a particular
page to make it seem more popular than it really is. Many different approaches
have been designed to detect and prevent such spamming practices [Spirin and
Han 2012].
The third challenge is the dynamic nature of the web. New pages are constantly
created and updated very quickly. This makes it harder to keep the index fresh with
the most recent content. These are just some of the challenges that we have to solve
in order to build a high quality web search engine. Despite these challenges, there
are also some interesting opportunities that we can leverage to improve search
results. For example, we can imagine that using links between pages can improve
scoring.
Thealgorithmsthatwetalkedaboutsuchasthevectorspacemodelaregeneral—
they can be applied to any search application. On the other hand, they also don’t
take advantage of special characteristics of pages or documents in specific applica-
tions such as web search. Due to these challenges and opportunities, there are new
