276
Chapter 14
Text Clustering
Figure 14.1
Illustration of clustering bias. The figure on the left shows a set of objects that can
be potentially clustered in different ways depending on the definition of similarity (or
clustering bias). The figure in the middle shows the clustering results when similarity
is defined based on the shape of an object. The figure on the right shows the clustering
results of the same set of objects when similarity is defined based on size.
imagine objects inside the same cluster are similar in some way—more so than ob-
jectsthatappearintwodifferentclusters.However, suchadefinitionofclusteringis
strictly speaking not well defined as we did not make it clear how exactly we should
measure similarity. Indeed, an appropriate definition of similarity is quite crucial
for clustering as a different definition would clearly lead to a different clustering
result.
Consider the illustration in Figure 14.1. How should we cluster the objects
shown in the figure on the left side? What would an ideal clustering result look
like? Clearly these questions cannot be answered until we define the perspective
for measuring similarity very clearly, i.e., inject a particular “clustering bias.” If
we define similarity based on the shape of an object, we will obtain a clustering
result as shown in the picture in the middle of the figure. However, if we define
the similarity based on the size of an object, then we would have very different
results as shown in the figure on the right side. Thus, when we define a clustering
task, it is important to state the desired perspective of measuring similarity, which
we refer to as a “clustering bias.” This bias will also be the basis for evaluating
clustering results. The ambiguity of perspective for similarity not only exists in such
an artificial example, but also exists everywhere. Take words for example: are “car”
and “horse” similar? A car and a horse are clearly not similar physically. However,
if we look at them from the perspective of their functions, we may say that they are
similar since they can both be used as transportation tools. The “right” clustering
bias clearly has to be determined by the specific application.
In different algorithms, the clustering bias is injected in different ways. For
some clustering algorithms, it is up to the user to define or select explicitly a
similarity algorithm for the clustering method to use. It will put (for example)
documents that are all similar according to the chosen similarity algorithm in
the same cluster. Other clustering algorithms are model-based (typically based on
