66
Chapter 4
META: A Unified Toolkit for Text Data Management and Analysis
If running ./profile prints out this information, then everything has been
set up correctly. We’ll look into what each of these options mean in the following
exercises.
4.1. Stop Word Removal.
Consider the following words: I, the, of, my, it, to, from.
If it was known that a document contained these words, would there be any idea
what the document was about? Probably not. These types of words are called stop
words. Specifically, they are very high frequency words that do not contain content
information. They are used because they’re grammatically required, such as when
connecting sentences.
Sincethesewordsdonotcontainanytopicalinformation, theyareoftenremoved
as a preprocessing step in text analysis. Not only are these (usually) useless words
ignored, but having less data can mean that algorithms run faster!
./profile config.toml two-cities.txt --stop
Now, use the profile program to remove stop words from the document two-
cities.txt. Can you still get an idea of what the book is about without these words
present?
4.2. Stemming.
Stemming is the process of reducing a word to a base form.
This is especially useful for search engines. If a user wants to find books about
running, documents containing the word run or runs would not match. If we apply
a stemming algorithm to a word, it is more likely that other forms of the word will
match it in an information retrieval task.
The most popular stemming algorithm is the Porter2 English Stemmer, devel-
oped by Martin Porter. It is a slightly improved version from the original Porter
Stemmer from 1980. Some examples are:
{run, runs, running} → run
{argue, argued, argues, arguing} → argu
{lies, lying, lie} → lie
META uses the Porter2 stemmer by default. You can read more about the Porter2
stemmer here: http://snowball.tartarus.org/algorithms/english/stemmer.html. An
online demo of the stemmer is also available if you’d like to play around with it:
http://web.engr.illinois.edu/~massung1/p2s_demo.html.
Now that you have an idea of what stemming is, run the stemmer on A Tale of
Two Cities.
./profile config.toml two-cities.txt --stem
