1.3 Organization of the Book
13
visualization of the results generated from various text mining algorithms is
generally desirable.
This list also serves as an outline of the major topics to be covered later in
this book. Specifically, search and filtering are covered first in Part II about text
data access, whereas categorization, clustering, topic analysis, and summarization
are covered later in Part III about text data analysis. Information extraction is not
covered in this book since we want to focus on general approaches that can be
readily applied to text data in any natural language, but information extraction
often requires language-specific techniques. Visualization is also not covered due
to the intended focus on algorithms in this book. However, it must be stressed that
both information extraction and visualization are very important topics relevant
to text data analysis and management. Readers interested in these techniques can
find some useful references in the Bibliographic Notes at the end of this chapter.
1.3
Organization of the Book
The book is organized into four parts, as shown in Figure 1.4.
Part I. Overview and Background.
This part consists of the first four chapters
and provides an overview of the book and background knowledge, including
basic concepts needed for understanding the content of the book that some
readers may not be familiar with, and an introduction to the META toolkit
used for exercises in the book. This part also gives a brief overview of natu-
ral language processing techniques needed for understanding text data and
obtaining informative representation of text needed in all text data analysis
applications.
Part II. Text Data Access.
This part consists of Chapters 5–11, covering the ma-
jor techniques for supporting text data access. This part provides a systematic
discussion of the basic information retrieval techniques, including the for-
mulation of retrieval tasks as a problem of ranking documents for a query
(Chapter 5), retrieval models that form the foundation of the design of rank-
ing functions in a search engine (Chapter 6), feedback techniques (Chapter 7),
implementation of retrieval systems (Chapter 8), and evaluation of retrieval
systems (Chapter 9). It then covers web search engines, the most important
application of information retrieval so far (Chapter 10), where techniques for
analyzing links in text data for improving ranking of text objects are intro-
duced and application of supervised machine learning to combine multiple
