13.2 Discovery of paradigmatic relations
255
cat:
Left1(“cat”) = {“my”, “his”, “big”, “a”, “the”, …}
Window8(“cat”) =
{“my”, “his”, “big”, “eats”, “ﬁsh”, …}
Right1(“cat”) = {“eats”, “ate”, “is”, “has”, …}
Context = pseudo document = “bag of words”
Context may contain adjacent or non-adjacent words
My  _  eats   ﬁsh on Saturday
His  _  eats   turkey on Tuesday
…
Figure 13.3
Context of words convey semantics.
13.2
Discovery of paradigmatic relations
By definition, two words are paradigmatically related if they share a similar context.
Naturally, our idea of discovering such a relation is to look at the context of each
word and then try to compute the similarity of those contexts.
In Figure 13.3, we have taken the word cat out of its context. The remaining
words in the sentences that contain cat are the words that tend to co-occur with it.
We can do the same thing for another word like dog. In general, we would like to
capture such contexts and then try to assess the similarity of the context of cat and
the context of a word like dog.
The question is how to formally represent the context and define the similarity
function between contexts. First, we note that the context contains many words.
These words can be regarded as a pseudo document, but there are also different
ways of looking at the context. For example, we can look at the word that occurs
before the word cat. We call this context the left context L. In this case, we will see
words like my, his, big, a, the, and so on. Similarly, we can also collect the words
that occur after the word cat, which is called the right context R. Here, we see words
like eats, ate, is, and has. More generally, we can look at all the words in the window
of text around the target word. For example, we can take a window of eight words
around the target word.
These word contexts from the left or from the right form a bag of words repre-
sentation. Such a word-based representation would actually give us a useful way to
define the perspective of measuring context similarity. For example, we can com-
pare only the L context, the R context, or both. A context may contain adjacent
