280
Chapter 14
Text Clustering
their high-dimensional space; the larger the angle, the more dissimilar the docu-
ments are.
Another common similarity metric is Jaccard similarity. This metric is a set
similarity; that is, it only captures the presence and absence of terms with no regard
to magnitude. It is defined as follows:
simJaccard(X, Y) = |X ∩ Y|
|X ∪ Y| ,
(14.2)
where X and Y represent the set of elements in the document vector x and y,
respectively.InplainEnglish, itcapturestheratioofsharedobjectsandtotalobjects
in both sets.
For a more in-depth study of similarity measures and their effectiveness, we sug-
gest that the reader consult Huang [2008]. For the rest of this chapter, it is sufficient
to assume that the base document-document similarity measure is cosine or Jac-
card similarity. In any event, the goal of a particular similarity algorithm is to find
an optimal partitioning of data to simultaneously maximize intra-group similarity
and minimize inter-group similarity.
14.2.1
Agglomerative Hierarchical Clustering
We are now ready to discuss our first general clustering strategy. This method
progressively constructs clusters to generate a hierarchy of merged groups. This
bottom-up (agglomerative) approach gradually groups similar objects (single doc-
uments or groups of documents) into larger and larger clusters until there is only
one cluster left. The tree may then be segmented as needed. Alternatively, the merg-
ing may be stopped when the desired number of clusters is found. This series of
merges forms a dendrogram, represented in Figure 14.2.
In the figure, the original documents are numbered one through eleven and
comprise the bottom row of the dendrogram. Circles represent clusters of more
than one document, and lines represent which documents or clusters were merged
together to form the next, larger cluster.
The clustering algorithm is straightforward: while there is more than one clus-
ter, find the two most similar clusters and merge them. This does present an issue
though when we need to compare the similarity of a cluster with a cluster, or a clus-
ter with a single document. Until now, we have only defined similarity measures
that take two documents as input. To simplify this problem, we will treat individ-
ual documents as clusters; thus we only need to compare clusters for similarity.
The cluster similarity measures we define make use of the document-document
similarity measures presented previously.
