Exercises
273
convince others that such modifications are useful and worthwhile to the overall
system.
Bibliographic Notes and Further Reading
Manning and Sch¨utze [1999] has two useful relevant chapters on the discovery of
word associations: Chapter 5 (Collocations) and Chapter 8 (Lexical Acquisition). An
early reference on the use of mutual information for discovering word associations
is Church and Hanks [1990]. Both paradigmatic and syntagmatic relations can also
be discovered using random walks defined on word adjacency graphs, and a unified
framework for modeling both kinds of word associations was proposed in Jiang and
Zhai [2014]. Non-compositional phrases (also called lexical atoms) such as hot dog
can also be discovered using similar heuristics to what we have discussed in this
chapter (see Zhai 1997, Lin 1999). Another approach to word association discovery
is the n-gram class language model [Brown et al. 1992]. Recently, word embed-
ding techniques (e.g., word2vec; Mikolov et al. 2013) have shown great promise
for learning a vector representation of a word that can further enable computation
of similarity between two words, thus directly supporting paradigmatic relation dis-
covery. Both the n-gram class language model and word2vec are briefly discussed
in the context of term clustering in Chapter 14.
Exercises
13.1. What are the minimum and maximum possible values of the conditional
entropy H(X | Y)? Under what situations do they occur?
13.2. In the mutual information section, we applied a simple smoothing tech-
nique. Based on your knowledge from Chapter 6, define a more robust smoothing
method for calculating syntagmatic relations.
13.3. Feature selection is the process of reducing the dimensionality of the feature
space to increase performance and decrease running time (since there are fewer
features). Outline a feature selection method for the unigram words feature repre-
sentation using word relations.
13.4. Do you think using the syntagmatic and paradigmatic word association min-
ing methods would work for other feature types? Give some examples of other
features where it may work and others where it may not.
13.5. Use META to implement one or both of the word association mining meth-
ods. Use the default unigram tokenization chain to read over a corpus and create
