12.2 Text vs. Non-text Data: Humans as Subjective Sensors
245
Data mining
software
Video mining
…
Text mining
Text
data
Non-text
data
Sensor 1
Actionable knowledge
Real world
Numerical
Categorical
Relational
Video
General data
mining
Sensor 2
…
…
Sensor k
Figure 12.2
The general problem of data mining.
Looking at text data in this way has an advantage of being able to integrate all
types of data together, which is instrumental in almost all data mining problems.
In a data mining scenario, we would be dealing with data about our world that are
related to a particular problem. Most problems would be dealing with both non-
text data and text data. Of course, the non-text data are usually produced by physical
sensors and can exist in many different formats such as numerical, categorical, or
relational. It could even be multimedia data like video or speech. Text data is also
very important because they contain knowledge about users, especially preferences
and opinions.
By treating text data as data observed from human sensors, we can examine
all this data together in the same framework. The data mining problem can then
be defined as to turn all such data into actionable knowledge that we can take
advantage of to change the world for the better. This is illustrated in Figure 12.2.
Inside of the data mining module, you can also see we have a number of different
kinds of mining algorithms. Of course, for different kinds of data, we generally
need different algorithms, each suitable for mining a particular kind of data. For
example, video data would require computer vision to understand video content,
which would facilitate more effective general mining. We also have many general
algorithms that are applicable to all kinds of data; those algorithms, of course, are
very useful, but for a particular kind of data, in order to achieve the best mining
results, we generally would still need to develop a specialized algorithm. This part
of the book will cover specialized algorithms that are particularly useful for mining
and analyzing text data.
