60
Chapter 4
META: A Unified Toolkit for Text Data Management and Analysis
Once these steps are complete, the reader should be able to complete any exer-
cise or run any demo. If any additional files or information are needed, it will be
provided in the accompanying section.
4.3
Architecture
All processed data in META is stored in an index. There are two index types:
forward_index and inverted_index. The former is keyed by document IDs, and
the latter is keyed by term IDs.
forward_index is used for applications such as topic modeling and most clas-
sification tasks.
inverted_index is used to create search engines, or do classification with k-
nearest-neighbor or similar algorithms.
Since each META application takes an index as input, all processed data is
interchangeable between all the components. This also gives a great advantage to
classification: META supports out-of-core classification by default! If a dataset is
small enough (like most other toolkits assume), a cache can be used such as no_
evict_cache to keep it all in memory without sacrificing any speed. (Index usage
is explained in much more detail in the search engine exercises.)
There are four corpus input formats.
line_corpus. each dataset consists of one to three files:
corpusname.dat. each document appears on one line
corpusname.dat.labels. optional file that includes the class or label of
the document on each line, again corresponding to the order in cor-
pusname.dat. These are the labels that are used for the classification
tasks.
file_corpus. each document is its own file, and the name of the file becomes
the name of the document. There is also a corpusname-full-corpus.txt
which contains (on each line) a required class label for each document fol-
lowed by the path to the file on disk. If there are no class labels, a placeholder
label should be required, e.g., “[none]”.
gz_corpus. similar to line_corpus, but each of its files and metadata files are
compressed using gzip compression:
corpusname.dat.gz. compressed version of corpusname.dat
corpusname.dat.labels.gz. compressed
version
of corpusname.
dat.labels
