11.2 Collaborative Filtering
229
don’t want to risk losing money, so it’s a “safe” strategy in that sense. The problem
is, of course, that this approach is purely heuristic and the zero utility lower bound
is often too conservative in practice. There are more advanced machine learning
projects that have been proposed for solving these problems; it is actually a very
active research area.
11.2
Collaborative Filtering
In collaborative filtering, a system makes decisions for an individual user based
on judgements of other users (hence it is “collaborative”). The basic idea is to
infer individual interests or preferences based solely on similar users. Given a user,
collaborative filtering finds a set of similar users. Based on the set of similar users,
it predicts the current user’s preferences.
This method makes some assumptions.
.
Users with a common interest will have similar preferences
.
Users with similar preferences share the same interest
For example, if a user has an interest in information retrieval, they might favor
papers published in SIGIR. If users favor SIGIR papers, then they might have an
interest in IR. The text content of items doesn’t matter! This is in sharp contrast
to the previous section, where we looked at item similarity through content-based
filtering.
Here, we will infer an individual’s interest based on other similar users. The
general idea is displayed in Figure 11.6: given a user u, we will rank other users
based on similarity, u1, . . . , um. We then predict user preferences based on the
preferences of these m other users. The preference is on a common set of items
o1, . . . , on. If we arrange the users and objects into a matrix X, we can consider the
user ui and the object oj as the point (ui, oj) in the matrix. If we have a judgment
by that user for that object, the element in that position would be the user rating
Xij.
Again, note that the exact content of each item doesn’t matter at all. We only
consider the relationship between the users and the items. This makes this ap-
proach very general since it can be applied to any items—not just text documents.
Those items could be movies or products and the users could give ratings (e.g.) one
through five. Some users have watched movies and rated them, but most movies
for a given user are unrated (since it’s unlikely that a user has examined all items in
the object space). Thus, many item entries have unknown values and it is the job of
