1.4 How to Use this Book
17
the entire book as an Introduction to Text Data Mining, while skipping some
chapters in Part 2 that are more specific to search engine implementation and
applications specific to the Web. Another choice would be using all parts as a
supplemental graduate textbook, where there is still some emphasis on prac-
tical programming knowledge that can be combined with reading referenced
papers in each chapter. Exercises for graduate students could be implement-
ing some methods they read in the references into META.
The exercises at the end of each chapter give students experience working
with a powerful—yet easily understandable—text retrieval and mining toolkit
in addition to written questions. In a programming-focused class, using the
META exercises is strongly encouraged. Programming assignments can be cre-
ated from selecting a subset of exercises in each chapter. Due to the modular
nature of the toolkit, additional programming experiments may be created by
extending the existing system or implementing other well-known algorithms
that do not come with META by default. Finally, students may use compo-
nents of META they learned through the exercises to complete a larger final
programming project. Using different corpora with the toolkit can yield dif-
ferent project challenges, e.g., review summary vs. sentiment analysis.
Practitioners.
Most readers in industry would most likely use this book as a
reference, although we also hope that it may serve as some inspiration in
your own work. As with the student user suggestion, we think you would get
the most of this book by first reading the initial three chapters. Then, you may
choose a chapter relevant to your current interests and delve deeper or refresh
your knowledge.
Since many applications in META can be used simply via config files, we
anticipate it as a quick way to get a handle on your dataset and provide some
baseline results without any programming required.
The exercises at the end of each chapter can be thought of as default
implementations for a particular task at hand. You may choose to include
META in your work since it uses a permissive free software license. In fact, it is
dual-licensed under MIT and University of Illinois/NCSA licenses. Of course,
we still encourage and invite you to share any modifications, extensions, and
improvements with META that are not proprietary for the benefit of all the
readers.
No matter what your goal, we hope that you find this book useful and educa-
tional. We also appreciate your comments and suggestions for improvement of the
book. Thanks for reading!
