19.5 Topic Analysis with Time Series Context
433
connect all the related data together as a big network, and associate text data with
various structures in the network. For example, text data can be associated with the
nodes of the network; such a case can be analyzed by using NetPLSA as we have just
discussed. However, text data can also be associated with edges in a network, paths,
or even subnetworks to help discover topics or perform comparative analysis.
19.5
Topic Analysis with Time Series Context
In many applications, we may be interested in mining text data to understand
events that happened in the real world. As a special case, we may be interested
in using text mining to understand a time series. For example, we might have
observed a sudden drop in prices on the stock market in a particular time period
and would like to see if the companion text data such as news might help explain
what happened. If the crashing time of the stocks corresponds to a time when
a particular news topic suddenly appeared in the news stream, there might be a
potential relationship between the topic and the stock crash. Similarly, one might
also be interested in understanding what topics reported in the news stream were
relevant for a presidential election, and thus interested in finding topics in news
streamthatarecorrelatedwiththefluctuationofthePresidentialPredictionMarket
(which measures people’s opinions toward each presidential candidate).
All these cases are special cases of a general problem of joint analysis of text
and a time series to discover causal topics. Here we use the term causal in a non-
rigorous way to refer to any topic that might be related to the time series and thus
can be potentially causal. This analysis task is illustrated in Figure 19.14.
The input includes a time series plus text data that are produced in the same time
period, also known as a companion text stream. The time series can be regarded as a
• Input:
 – Time series
 – Text data produced in a similar time period (text stream)
• Output: 
 – Topics whose coverage in the text stream has strong correlations
    with the time series (“causal” topics)
Time
Tax cut
Gun control
…
…
Figure 19.14
The task of causal topic mining.
