17
Topic Analysis
This chapter is about topic mining and analysis, covering a family of unsupervised
text mining techniques called probabilistic topic models that can be used to dis-
cover latent topics in text data.
A topic is something that we all understand intuitively, but it’s actually not easy to
formally define it. Roughly speaking, a topic is the main idea discussed in text data,
which may also be regarded as a theme or subject of a discussion or conversation.
A topic can have different granularities. For example, we can talk about the topic
of a sentence, the topic of an article, the topic of a paragraph, or the topic of all
the research articles in a library. Different granularities of topics have different
applications.
There are many applications that require discovery and analysis of topics in
text. For example, we might be interested in knowing about what Twitter users
are talking about today. Are they talking about NBA sports, international events,
or another topic? We may also be interested in knowing about research topics; one
might be interested in knowing the current research topics in data mining, and how
they are different from those five years ago. To answer such questions, we need to
discover topics in the data mining literature, including specifically topics in today’s
literature and those in the past so that we can make a comparison.
We might also be interested in knowing what people like about some products,
such as smartphones. This requires discovering topics in both positive reviews and
negative reviews. Or, perhaps we’re interested in knowing what the major topics
debated in a presidential election are. All these have to do with discovering topics
in text and analyzing them. How to do this is a main topic of this chapter.
We can view a topic as describing some knowledge about the world as shown
in Figure 17.1. From text data, we want to discover a number of topics which can
provide a description about the world. That is, a topic tells us something about the
world (e.g., about a product or a person).
Besides text data, we often also have some non-text data which can be used as
additional context for analyzing the topics. We might know the time associated
