Exercises
189
(b) Can recall at five documents (R@5) ever be lower than R@10 for the same
ranked list?
(c) Assume there are 100 relevant documents. Can R@5 be higher than P@5 for
the same ranked list?
(d) Assume there is only one relevant document. Can R@5 be higher than P@5
for the same ranked list?
9.5. When using the NDCG evaluation metric, researchers sometimes consider
NDCG@k. This is the NDCG score of the top k documents returned by the search
engine. When calculating the ideal DCG, should we consider only k results or
should we consider all relevant documents for the query?
9.6. The breakeven point precision is the precision at the cutoff in the ranked list
where precision and recall are equal. Can this value be used to compare two or more
retrieval systems? How does this measure compare to other single-point measures
such as F1 and average precision?
9.7. A researcher wishes to show that his method is better than an existing method.
He used a statistical significance test and found that with 95% confidence, the
results were random (i.e., his method was not arguably better). If he changes the
confidence level to 90%, he can show that his method is better than the baseline
using the same significance test. Is there anything wrong with this?
9.8. How does stemming words affect retrieval performance? Design an experi-
ment to find an answer. What is your dataset? What other information do you need
in order to perform this test? How can you quantify the results?
9.9. Use META to perform the stemming experiment described above. A corpus
with relevance judgements can be found on the META site.
9.10. Find the best unigram words tokenization method for retrieval. For exam-
ple, consider lowercasing, keeping only alpha characters, stemming, stopword
removal, or a combination of these. Quantify your results by using IR evaluation
techniques.
9.11. Find a publicly available dataset and create your own queries and relevance
judgements for it using the META format (described on the site).
9.12. Modify META’s index::ir_eval class to add support for mean reciprocal
rank (MRR) evaluation.
