202
Chapter 10
Web Search
OnthebottomofFigure10.6, therearesomepatternsoflinkswhichmayindicate
the utility of a document. For example, on the right side you can see a page has
received many inlinks, meaning many other pages are pointing to this page. This
shows that this page is quite useful. On the left side you can see a page that points
to many other pages. This is a central page that would allow you to see many other
pages. We call the first case an authority page and the second case a hub page. This
means the link information can help in two ways; one is to provide extra text for
matching (in the case of anchors) and the other is to provide some additional scores
for the web pages to characterize how likely a page is a hub or an authority.
10.3.1
PageRank
Google’s PageRank, a main technique that was used originally for link analysis,
is a good example of leveraging page link information. PageRank captures page
popularity, which is another word for authority. The intuition is that links are just
like citations in literature. Think about one page pointing to another page; this is
very similar to one paper citing another paper. Thus, if a page is cited often, we
can assume this page is more useful. PageRank takes advantage of this intuition
and implements it in a principled approach. In its simplest sense, PageRank is
essentially doing citation counting or inlink counting.
It improves this simple idea in two ways. One is to consider indirect citations.
This means you don’t just look at the number of inlinks, rather you also look at the
inlinks of your inlinks, recursively. If your inlinks themselves have many inlinks,
your page gets credit from that. In short, if important pages are pointing to you,
you must also be important. On the other hand, if those pages that are pointing to
you are not pointed to by many other pages, then you don’t get that much credit.
This is the concept of indirect citations, or cascading citations.
Again, we can understand this idea by considering research papers. If you are
cited by ten papers that are not very influential, that’s not as good as if you’re cited
by ten papers that themselves have attracted a lot of other citations. Clearly, this is a
case where we would like to consider indirect links, which is exactly what PageRank
does. The other idea is that it’s good to smooth the citations to accommodate
potential citations that have not yet been observed. Assume that every page has
a non-zero pseudo citation count. Essentially, you are trying to imagine there are
many virtual links that will link all the pages together so that you actually get pseudo
citations from everyone.
Another way to understand PageRank is the concept of a random surfer visiting
every web page. Let’s take a look at this example in detail, illustrated in Figure 10.7.
On the left, there is a small graph, where each document d1, d2, d3, and d4 is a web
