Preface
The growth of “big data” created unprecedented opportunities to leverage compu-
tational and statistical approaches to turn raw data into actionable knowledge that
can support various application tasks. This is especially true for the optimization of
decision making in virtually all application domains such as health and medicine,
security and safety, learning and education, scientific discovery, and business in-
telligence. Just as a microscope enables us to see things in the “micro world” and a
telescope allows us to see things far away, one can imagine a “big data scope” would
enable us to extend our perception ability to “see” useful hidden information and
knowledgeburiedinthedata, whichcanhelpmakepredictionsandimprovetheop-
timality of a chosen decision. This book covers general computational techniques
for managing and analyzing large amounts of text data that can help users manage
and make use of text data in all kinds of applications.
Text data include all data in the form of natural language text (e.g., English text
or Chinese text): all the web pages, social media data such as tweets, news, scien-
tific literature, emails, government documents, and many other kinds of enterprise
data. Text data play an essential role in our lives. Since we communicate using nat-
ural languages, we produce and consume a large amount of text data every day on
all kinds of topics. The explosive growth of text data makes it impossible, or at least
very difficult, for people to consume all the relevant text data in a timely manner.
Thus, there is an urgent need for developing intelligent information retrieval sys-
tems to help people manage the text data and get access to the needed relevant
information quickly and accurately at any time. This need is a major reason be-
hind the recent growth of the web search engine industry. Due to the fact that text
data are produced by humans for communication purposes, they are generally rich
in semantic content and often contain valuable knowledge, information, opinions,
and preferences of people. Thus, as a special kind of “big data,” text data offer a
great opportunity to discover various kinds of knowledge useful for many applica-
tions, especially knowledge about human opinions and preferences, which is often
