13
Word Association Mining
In this chapter, we’re going to talk about how to mine associations of words from
text. This is an example of knowledge about the natural language that we can mine
from text data. We’ll first talk about what word association is and then explain why
discovering such relations is useful. Then, we’ll discuss some general ideas about
how to mine word associations.
In general, there are two types of word relations; one is called a paradigmatic re-
lation and the other is a syntagmatic relation. Word wa and wb have a paradigmatic
relation if they can be substituted for each other. That means the two words that
have paradigmatic relation would be in the same semantic class, or syntactic class.
We can replace one with another without affecting the understanding of the sen-
tence. Chapter 14 gives some additional ideas not discussed in this chapter about
how to group similar terms together.
As an example, the words cat and dog have a paradigmatic relation because they
are in the same word class: animal. If you replace cat with dog in a sentence, the
sentence would still be (mostly) comprehensible. Similarly, Monday and Tuesday
have a paradigmatic relation.
The second kind of relation is called a syntagmatic relation. In this case, the
two words that have this relation can be combined with each other. Thus, wa
and wb have a syntagmatic relation if they can be combined with each other in a
grammatical sentence—meaning that these two words are semantically related. For
example, cat and sit are related because a cat can sit somewhere (usually anywhere
they please). Similarly, car and drive are related semantically because they can be
combined with each other to convey some meaning. However, we cannot replace
cat with sit in a sentence or car with drive in the sentence and still have a valid
sentence. Therefore, the previous pairs of words have a syntagmatic relation and
not a paradigmatic relation.
These two relations are in fact so fundamental that they can be generalized to
capture basic relations between units in arbitrary sequences. They can be gener-
alized to describe relations of any items in a language; that is, wa and wb don’t
