Exercises
145
you are using pseudo feedback compared to user-supplied relevance judgements?
What about implicit feedback through clickthrough data?
7.2. Imagine you are in charge of a large search-engine company. What other
strategies could you devise to get relevance judgments from users?
7.3. Say one of your new strategies is to measure the amount of time t a user spends
on each search result document. How can you incorporate this t for each document
into a feedback measure for a particular query?
7.4. Implement Rocchio pseudo feedback in META.
7.5. Implement mixture model feedback for language models in META. Use which-
ever method is most convenient to estimate θF. Or, compare different estimation
methods for θF.
7.6. After implementing Rocchio pseudo feedback, index a dataset with relevance
judgements. Plot MAP (see Chapter 9) across different values of k. Do you see any
trends?
7.7. After implementing mixture model feedback, index a dataset with relevance
judgements. Plot MAP (see Chapter 9) across different values of the mixing param-
eter α. Do you see any trends?
7.8. Design a heuristic to automatically determine the best k for pseudo feedback
on a query-by-query basis. You could look at the query itself, the number of match-
ing documents, or the distribution of ranking scores in the original results. Test
your heuristic by doing experiments.
7.9. Design a heuristic to automatically determine the best α for mixture model
feedback on a query-by-query basis. You could look at the query itself, the number
of matching documents, or the distribution of ranking scores in the original results.
Test your heuristic by doing experiments.
7.10. In mixture model feedback, we discussed how to incorporate positive feed-
back documents via a language model θF. Design a formula that also incorporates
a set of negative feedback documents. Ensure that your new query language model
is still a valid probability distribution.
7.11. In mixture model feedback, we estimated the feedback LM with a probabilis-
tic model that ensures stop words do not affect the reformulated query. Do we need
to do anything like this for Rocchio feedback?
