296
Chapter 14
Text Clustering
is often inaccurate. In practice, we may empirically set the number of clusters to a
fixed number based on application needs or domain knowledge.
Which method works the best highly depends on whether the bias (definition
of similarity) reflects our perspective for clustering accurately and whether the as-
sumptions made by an approach hold for the problem and applications. In general,
model-based approaches have more potential for doing “complex clustering” by
encoding more constraints into the probabilistic model.
Bibliographic Notes and Further Reading
Clustering is a general technique in data mining and is usually covered in detail in
any book on data mining [Han 2005], [Aggarwal 2015]. There is also a chapter on
text clustering in Aggarwal and Zhai [2012], where many text clustering methods
are reviewed. An empirical comparison of some document clustering techniques
can be found in Steinbach et al. [2000]. Term clustering is related to word associ-
ation discovery, a topic covered in Chapter 13. An interesting theoretical work on
clustering is Kleinberg [2002], where it is shown that there does not exist any clus-
tering that can satisfy a small number of desirable properties (i.e., an impossibility
theorem about clustering).
Exercises
14.1. Clustering search results to allow browsing was one application of clustering
given in this chapter. What clustering method would you choose to implement for
your search engine, assuming simplicity, effectiveness, and running time were all
concerns?
14.2. What type of clustering algorithm would you use to support browsing a
corpus? Imagine users start with a small set of clusters and continually refine (or
backtrack) their path in a search for interesting information.
14.3. The number of clusters plays an important role in the output of a clustering
algorithm. For which clustering algorithms does the number of clusters play a large
role in the overall running time, if any?
14.4. Cluster labeling is an active research field. Brainstorm some ideas how to
assign cluster labels when clustering documents and when clustering terms. A good
cluster-labeling algorithm would probably include some formulas based on term
or cluster statistics.
