440
Chapter 19
Joint Analysis of Text and Structured Data
some of which can even go beyond what’s discussed in the content of text, text-
based prediction is often very useful for optimizing our decision making, especially
when combined with other non-text data that are often also available, and it has
widespread applications.
Non-text data can provide a context for mining text data, while text data can
also help interpret patterns discovered from non-text data (such as pattern annota-
tion). The joint analysis of text and non-text data is a relatively new active research
frontier. In this chapter, we covered a number of general techniques that com-
bine topic analysis with non-text data, including contextual probabilistic latent
semantic analysis (CPLSA) that embeds context variables such as time and location
directly in a topic model, network-supervised topic modeling that uses companion
network/graph structure of text data to regularize topic discovery, and time series
as context for discovering potentially causal topics from text data. Due to space
limitations, we only provided a brief introduction to the high-level ideas of these ap-
proaches without elaboration, but we have included sample results of all of them to
help understand the potential applications that they can enable. These approaches
are all general, and thus they can be potentially applied to many different domains.
Bibliographic Notes and Further Reading
The dissertation Mei [2009] has an excellent discussion of contextual text mining
with many specific explorations of using context for text analysis, notably with topic
modeling. Specifically, both the contextual probabilistic latent semantic analysis
model [Mei and Zhai 2006] and topic modeling with network as context [Mei et al.
2008] are discussed in detail in the dissertation. The iterative topic modeling ap-
proach with time series for supervision is described in Kim et al. [2013]. A general
discussion of text-driven forecasting and its many applications can be found in
Smith [2010]. Text and the companion structured data can often be generally mod-
eled as an information network. A systematic discussion of algorithms for analyzing
informationnetworkscanbefoundinSunandHan[2012].Interactivejointanalysis
of text and structured data can also be supported by combining the traditional On-
line Analytical Processing (OLAP) techniques with topic modeling to enable users to
drill-down and roll-up in the “text dimension” using a hierarchical topic structure
as described in Zhang et al. [2009].
Exercises
1. We gave several examples of how to integrate text and structured data into
one application. Brainstorm some other ideas that were not discussed in this
