102
Chapter 6
Retrieval Models
d1
f(q, d1) = 2.5
f(q, d2) = 5.6
f(q, d3) = 7.1
f(q, d4) = 9.6
ff(q, , d5) = 13.9!
) = 13.9!
… news about …
d2
… news about organic food campaign …
d3
… news of presidential campaign …
d4
… news of presidential campaign …
… presidential candidate …
d5
… news of organic food campaign …
campaign … campaign … campaign …
Query = “news about presidential campaign”
Figure 6.12
Scores of all five documents using TF-IDF weighting.
seem to be quite reasonable. But again, we also see a new problem since d5 did not
even have a very high score with our simplest vector space model, but now d5 has
the highest score. This is actually a common phenomenon when designing retrieval
functions; when you try to fix one problem, you tend to introduce other problems!
That’s why it’s very tricky to design an effective ranking function, and why finding
a “best” ranking function is an open research question. In the next few sections,
we’ll continue to discuss some additional ideas to further improve this model and
try to fix this problem.
6.3.4
TF Transformation
In the previous section, we derived a TF-IDF weighting formula using the vector
space model and showed that this model actually works pretty well for the examples
shown in the figures—except for d5, which has a very high score. This document is
intuitively non-relevant, so its position is not desirable. Now, we’re going to discuss
how to use a TF transformation to solve this problem. Before we discuss the details,
let’s take a look at the formula for the TF-IDF weighting and ranking function we
previously derived. It is shown in Figure 6.13.
If you look at the formula carefully, you will see it involves a sum over all the
matched query terms. Inside the sum, each matched query term has a particular
weight; this weight is TF-IDF weighting. It has an IDF component where we see two
variables: one is the total number of documents in the collection, M. The other is
the document frequency, df(w), which is the number of documents that contain
w. The other variables involved in the formula include the count of the query term
