424
Chapter 19
Joint Analysis of Text and Structured Data
What’s more interesting, however, is the two cells of word distributions shown
on the second and third rows in the first column, right below the cell about the
United Nations. These two cells show the Iraq-specific view of the topic about
the United Nations and the Afghanistan view of the same topic, respectively. The
results show that in the Iraq War, the United Nations was more involved in weapon
inspections, whereas in the Afghanistan War, it was more involved in, perhaps,
aid to the Northern Alliance. These two context-specific views of the topic of the
United Nations show different variations of the topic in the two wars, and reveal a
more detailed understanding of topics in a context-specific way. This table is not
only immediately useful for understanding the major topics and their variations
in these two sets of news articles, but can also serve as entry points to facilitate
browsing into very specific topics in the text collection; e.g., each cell can be made
clickable to enable a user to examine the relevant discussion in the news articles
in detail.
The second column shows another shared common topic about fatalities, which
again should not be surprising given that these articles are about wars. It also again
confirms that CPLSA is able to extract meaningful common topics. As in the case
of the first column, the collection-specific topics in the third column also further
show the variations of the topic in these two different contexts.
In Figure 19.7, we show the temporal trends of topics discovered from blog
articles about Hurricane Katrina. The x-axis is the time, and the y-axis is the
coverage of a topic. The plots are enabled directly by the parameters of CPLSA where
we used time and location as context.
In Figure 19.7, we show a visualization of the trends of topics over time. The top
plot shows the temporal trends of two topics. One is oil price, and one is about the
flooding of the city of New Orleans. The plot is based on the conditional probability
of a topic given a particular time period, which is one of the parameters in CPLSA
for capturing time-dependent coverage of topics. Here we see that initially the two
curves tracked each other very well. Interestingly, later, the topic of New Orleans
was mentioned again but oil prices was not. This turns out to be the time period
when another hurricane (Hurricane Rita) hit the region, which apparently triggered
more discussion about the flooding of the city, but not the discussion of oil price.
The bottom figure shows the coverage of the topic about flooding of the city New
Orleans by blog article authors in different locations (different states in the U.S.).
We see that the topic was initially heavily covered by authors in the victim areas
(e.g., Louisiana), but the topic was then picked up by the authors in Texas, which
might be explained by the move of people from the state of Louisiana to Texas.
Thus, these topical trends not only are themselves useful for revealing the topics
