Exercises
411
term excellent relatively high and the “bad” topic should weight the term broken
relatively high.
18.3. A simple version of sentiment analysis is called word valence scoring. A finite
list of words has a positive or negative valence score. When determining the senti-
ment for a sentence, the valence scores are added up for each word in the sentence;
if the result is positive, the sentiment is positive. If the result is negative, the sen-
timent is negative. For example, some valences could be bad = −4.5, awesome =
6.3, acceptable = 1.1. What is a potential weakness to this method?
18.4. How can we automatically create the sentiment word valence scores based
on a list of sentences labeled as positive or negative?
18.5. The techniques discussed in this chapter can be applied to other problems
aside from sentiment analysis in particular. Name some applications that also
would benefit from the general methods discussed in this chapter. Explain how
you would implement them.
18.6. Cross-fold validation is a useful way to evaluate classifiers as mentioned in
Chapter 15. How can cross-fold validation be used to detect potential overfitting?
18.7. We mentioned that a main challenge in designing features is to optimize
the tradeoff between exhaustivity and specificity. Can you design an experimental
training setup that takes these variables into account?
18.8. In LARA, why do you imagine the vector of weights α is drawn from a multi-
variate Gaussian distribution? That is, why not use some other distribution?
18.9. In LARA, each word is assigned an aspect, but this means that one sentence
may be assigned many different aspects. Can you outline an adjustment to ensure
that each sentence only covers one topic or a small number of topics? Similarly,
can we ensure that sequences of words all belong to the same aspect?
18.10. Instead of a classification task, it may be beneficial to instead rank text
objects by how positive they are (so low-ranking documents are very negative).
Outline a few methods on how this may be achieved. What are the benefits and
downsides compared to classification?
18.11. Imagine that you have an unlabeled dataset of product reviews. How can
you design a sentiment classifier based on this dataset without manually labeling
all of the documents?
