5.1 Access Mode: Pull vs. Push
75
“right keywords,” which would bring to the user relevant pages directly. However,
if a tourist doesn’t know the exact address of an attraction, the tourist may want to
take a taxi to an approximate location and then walk around to find the attraction.
Similarly, if a user does not have a good knowledge about the target pages, he or
she can also use an approximate query to reach some related pages and then browse
into truly relevant information. Thus, when querying does not work well, browsing
can be very useful.
In the push mode, the system initiates the process to recommend a set of
relevant information items to the user. This mode of information access is generally
more useful to satisfy a long-standing information need of a user or analyst. For
example, a researcher’s research interests can be regarded as relatively stable over
time. In comparison, the information stream (i.e., published research articles)
is dynamic. In such a scenario, although a user can regularly search for relevant
literature information with queries, it is more desirable for a recommender (also
called filtering) system to monitor the dynamic information stream and “push” any
relevant articles to the user based on the matching of the articles with the user’s
interests (e.g., in the form of an email). In some long-term analytics applications,
it would also be desirable to use the push mode to monitor any relevant text data
(such as relevant social media) about a topic related to the application.
Another scenario of push mode is producer-initiated recommendation, which
can be more appropriately called selective dissemination of information (SDI). In
such a scenario, the producer of information has an interest in disseminating
the information among relevant users, and would push an information item to
such users. Advertising of product information on search result pages is such an
example. The recommendation can be delivered through email notifications or
recommended through a search engine result page.
There are broadly two kinds of information needs: short-term need and long-
term need. Short-term needs are most often associated with pull mode, and long-
term needs are most often associated with push mode. A short-term information
needistemporaryandusuallysatisfiedthroughsearchornavigationintheinforma-
tion space, whereas a long-term information need can be better satisfied through
filtering or recommendation where the system would take the initiative to push
the relevant information to a user. Ad hoc retrieval is extremely important because
ad hoc information needs show up far more frequently than long-term informa-
tion needs. The techniques effective for ad hoc retrieval can usually be re-used for
filtering and recommendation as well. Also, in the case of long-term information
needs, it is possible to collect user feedback, which can be exploited. In this sense,
