12.3 Landscape of text mining tasks
249
what the user has said in text data (e.g., reviews), in which case, the results
from mining knowledge about the observer would clearly be very useful for
prediction.
Futhermore, non-text data can be very important in predictive analysis. For
example, if you want to predict stock prices or changes of stock prices, the
historical stock price data are presumably the best data to use for prediction
even though online discussions, news articles, or social media, may also
be useful for further improvement of prediction accuracy by contributing
additional effective features computed based on text data (which would be
combined with non-text features).
Non-text data can also be used for analyzing text by supplying context,
thus opening up many interesting opportunities to mine context-sensitive
knowledge from text data, i.e., associating the knowledge discovered from text
data with the non-text data (e.g., associating topics discovered from text with
time would generate temporal trends of topics). When we look at the text data
alone, we’ll be mostly looking at the content or opinions expressed in the text.
However, text data generally also has context associated with it. For example,
the time and the location of the production of the text data are both useful
“metadata” values of a text document. This context can provide interesting
angles for analyzing text data; we might partition text data into different time
periods because of the availability of the time. Now, we can analyze text data
in each time period and make a comparison. Similarly, we can partition text
data based on location or any other metadata that’s associated with it to
form interesting comparisons in those areas. In this sense, non-text data can
provide interesting angles or perspectives for text data analysis. It can help us
make context-sensitive analysis of content, language usage, or opinions about
the observer or the authors of text data. We discuss joint analysis of text and
non-text data in detail in Chapter 19.
This is a fairly general landscape of the topics in text mining and analytics. In
this book, we will selectively cover some of those topics that are representative of
the different kinds of text mining tasks. Chapters 2 and 3 already covered natural
language processing and the basics of machine learning, which allow us to under-
stand, represent, and classify text data—important steps in any text mining task. In
the remaining chapters of Part III of the book, we will start to enumerate different
text mining tasks that build upon the NLP and IR techniques discussed earlier.
First, we will discuss how to mine word associations from text data (Chapter 13),
revealing lexical knowledge about language. After word association mining, we will
