212
Chapter 10
Web Search
0.9 for non-relevant documents. Even though the predicted score is very high, as
long as the truly relevant documents receive scores that are greater than 0.9, the
ranking will still be acceptable to a user.
These learning to rank approaches are actually quite general. They can be ap-
plied to many other ranking problems aside from retrieval problems. For exam-
ple, recommender systems, computational advertising, summarization, and many
other relevant applications can all be solved using this approach.
To summarize, we talked about using machine learning to combine features to
predict a ranking result. Actually, the use of machine learning in information re-
trieval began many decades ago. Rocchio feedback, discussed in Chapter 7, was
a machine learning approach applied to learn the optimal feedback. Many algo-
rithms are driven by the availability of massive amounts of training data in the
form of clickthroughs. This data provides much useful knowledge about relevance,
and so machine learning methods are applied to leverage this. The need for ma-
chine learning is also driven by the desire to combine many different feature types
to predict an accurate ranking. web search especially drives this need since there
are more features available on the web that can be taken advantage of for search.
Using many different features also increases the robustness of the scoring function,
which is useful in combating spam. Modern search engines all use some kind of
machine learning techniques to combine many features to optimize ranking, and
this is a major feature of current engines such as Google and Bing.
10.5
The Future of Web Search
Since this chapter concludes our coverage of search engines, we briefly talk about
some possible future trends of web search and intelligent information retrieval sys-
tems in general. To further improve the accuracy of a search engine, it’s important
to consider special cases of information need. One particular trend is to have more
and more specialized and customized search engines, which can be called vertical
search engines. These vertical search engines can be expected to be more effective
thanthecurrentgeneralsearchenginesbecausetheycouldassumethataparticular
user belongs to a special group that might have a common information need.
Due to this customization, it’s also possible to do personalization. The search
can be personalized because we have a better understanding of the users. Restrict-
ing the domain of the search engine can also have some advantages in handling the
documents, because we would have a better understanding of these documents.
For example, particular words may not be ambiguous in such a domain, so we can
bypass the problem of ambiguity.
