13.4 Evaluation of Word Association Mining
271
the similarity between these words based on their context similarity. This provides
yet another way to do term weighting for paradigmatic relation discovery.
To summarize this chapter about word association mining, we introduced two
basic associations called paradigmatic and a syntagmatic relations. These are fairly
general since they apply to any items in any language; that is, the units don’t have
to be words (they can be phrases or entities). We introduced multiple statistical
approaches for discovering them, mainly showing that pure statistical approaches
are viable for discovering both kinds of relations. And they can be combined to
perform joint analysis as well. These approaches can be applied to any text with
no human effort, mostly because they are based on simple word counting, yet
they can actually discover interesting word relations. We can also use different
ways to define context and segment, and this would lead us to some interesting
variations of applications. For example, the context can be very narrow like a few
words, around a word, a sentence, or maybe paragraphs. Using differing contexts
wouldallowdiscoveryofdifferentflavorsofparadigmaticrelations.Ofcourse, these
associations can support many other applications in both information retrieval and
text data mining.
Discovery of word associations is closely related to term clustering, a topic that
will be discussed in detail in Chapter 14, where some advanced techniques that can
be potentially used for word association discovery will also be briefly discussed.
13.4
Evaluation of Word Association Mining
Word association mining is a fundamental technique, in that it is often used as a
first step in many other tasks. In this chapter, we gave one example of using word
association mining for query expansion.
The best way to convince an application developer that they should use word as-
sociation mining is to show how it can improve their application. If the application
is search, the question becomes: Does adding query expansion via word association
mining improve MAP at a statistically-significant level? We know how to perform
this type of evaluation from Chapter 9. The variable we control here between the two
experiments is whether we perform query expansion or not. To be more thorough,
we can compare query expansion with word association mining to query expansion
with (for example) Rocchio feedback as a baseline model.
To evaluate word association mining in isolation, we would need some set of
gold standard data. If we don’t have such data, we would need to use human manual
effort to judge whether the associations found are acceptable. Let’s first consider
the case where we have gold-standard data.
