19.2 Contextual Text Mining
417
data in different ways based on the companion non-text data (e.g., partitioning text
based on time or location). This opens up possibilities of contextual text mining, or
mining text data in the context defined by non-text data to discover context-specific
knowledge (such as topics associated with a specific non-text variable such as time),
or patterns across different contexts like temporal trends. Second, text data can
help interpret patterns discovered from non-text data. For example, if a frequent
pattern is discovered from non-text data, we can separate the text data associated
with the data instances where the pattern occurs from those associated with the
instances that do not match the pattern. We can then analyze the difference be-
tween these two sets of text data, which may be associated with the meaning of the
pattern, and thus can offer insights about how to interpret the pattern which would
otherwise be hard to interpret by only looking at the non-text data. This technique
is called pattern annotation and discussed in detail in Mei et al. [2006].
19.2
Contextual Text Mining
In this section, we discuss how to use non-text data as context to enrich topic
analysis of text data. Such analysis techniques can be regarded as an extension
of topic analysis to further reveal the correlation of topics and any associated
context (e.g., time or location). When topics represent opinions, we may also reveal
context-dependent opinions. Contextual text mining can be very useful for text-
based prediction because it allows us to combine non-text data with text data to
derive potentially very effective sophisticated predictors.
Contextual text mining is generally useful because text often has rich contextual
information. First, text data almost always have metadata available (such as time,
location, author, and source of the data), which can be regarded as direct context
information. Second, text data may also have indirect context which refers to addi-
tional data related to the metadata. For example, from the authors of a text article,
we can further obtain additional context such as the social network of the author,
the author’s age, or the author’s location. Such information is not in general di-
rectly related to the text, yet through such a propagation process, we can connect
all of them. There may also be other articles from the same source as a current arti-
cle, and we can connect these articles from the same source and make them related
as well. In general, any related data can be regarded as context.
What can the context of text data be used for? Context can be used to partition
text data in many interesting ways. It can almost allow us to partition text data in
any way that we want, and thus enables comparative analysis of text to be done
across any context dimension that is interesting to us.
