144
Chapter 7
Feedback
To summarize, this section discussed feedback in the language model approach;
we transform our original query likelihood retrieval function to a more general KL-
divergence model. This generalization allows us to use a language model for the
query, which can be manipulated to include feedback documents. We described a
method for estimating the parameters in this feedback model that discriminates
between topic words (relevant to the query) and background words (useless stop
words).
In this chapter, we talked about the three major feedback scenarios: relevance
feedback, pseudo feedback, and implicit feedback. We talked about how to use
Rocchio to do feedback in the vector-space model and how to use query model esti-
mation for feedback in language models. We briefly talked about the mixture model
for its estimation, although there are other methods to estimate these parameters
that we mention later on in the book.
Bibliographic Notes and Further Reading
An early empirical comparison of various relevance feedback techniques can be
found in Salton and Buckley [1990]. Pseudo-relevance feedback has become popu-
lar after positive results being observed in TREC experiments (e.g., Buckley 1994,
Xu and Croft 1996). A comparison of feedback approaches in language models is
available in Lv and Zhai [2009]. The positional relevance model proposed in Lv and
Zhai [2010] appears to be one of the most effective methods for estimating a query
language model for pseudo feedback. Due to the availability of a large amount of
search engine log data, implicit feedback based on users’ interaction behavior has
become a very important and very effective technique to enable web search engines
to improve their accuracy over time as more and more users are using the systems,
though the interpretation of user clickthroughs must take position bias into con-
sideration, which is discussed in detail in Joachims et al. [2007]. A bibliography on
implicit feedback can be found in Kelly and Teevan [2003]. In the web search era,
implicit feedback is often implemented in the form of using feedback features in
a ranking function using machine learning, i.e., learning to rank techniques; they
are discussed briefly in Chapter 10 of the book. For a more thorough discussion of
mining query logs, see the tutorial [Silvestri 2010].
Exercises
7.1. How should you set the Rocchio parameters α, β, and γ depending on what
type of feedback you are using? That is, should the parameters be set differently if
