82
Chapter 5
Overview of Text Data Access
Because of the difference, the two fields have been traditionally studied in differ-
ent communities with a different application basis. Databases have had widespread
applications in virtually every domain with a well-established strong industry. The
IR community that studies text retrieval has been an interdisciplinary community
involving library and information science and computer science, but had not had
a strong industry base until the Web was born in the early 1990s. Since then, the
search engine industry has dominated, and as more and more online information
is available, the search engine technologies (which include TR and other technical
components such as machine learning and natural language processing) will con-
tinue to grow. Soon we will find search technologies to have widespread use just
like databases. Furthermore, because of the inherent similarity between database
search and TR, because both efficiency and effectiveness (accuracy) are important,
and because most online data has text fields as well as some kind of structures, the
two fields are now moving closer and closer to each other, leading to some common
fundamental questions such as: “What should be the right query language?”; “How
can we rank items accurately?”; “How do we find answers quickly?”; and “How do
we support interactive search?”
Perhaps the most important conclusion from this comparison is that the prob-
lemoftextretrievalisan empiricallydefinedproblem.Thismeansthatwhichmethod
works better cannot be answered by pure analytical reasoning or mathematical
proofs. Instead, it has to be empirically evaluated by users, making it a significant
challenge in evaluating the effectiveness of a search engine. This is also the reason
why a significant amount of effort has been spent in research of TR evaluation since
it was initially studied in the 1960s. The evaluation methodology of TR remains an
important open research topic today; we discuss it in detail in Chapter 9.
5.5
Document Selection vs. Document Ranking
Given a document collection (a set of unordered text documents), the task of text
retrieval can be defined as using a user query (i.e., a description of the user’s
information need) to identify a subset of documents that can satisfy the user’s
information need. In order to computationally solve the problem of TR, we must
first formally define it. Thus, in this section, we will provide a formal definition of
TR and discuss high-level strategies for solving this problem.
Let V = {w1, . . . , wN} be a vocabulary set of all the words in a particular natural
languagewherewi isaword.Auser’squeryq = q1, q2, . . . , qm isasequenceofwords,
where qi ∈ V . Similarly, a document di = di1, . . . , dim is also a sequence of words
where dij ∈ V . In general, a query is much shorter than a document since the query
