10.5 The Future of Web Search
215
customer service people with emails from the customers. Imagine a system that can
provide an analysis of these emails to find that the major complaints of the cus-
tomers. We can imagine a system that could provide task support by automatically
generating a response to a customer email by intelligently attaching a promotion
message if appropriate. If they detect a positive message (not a complaint) then they
might take this opportunity to attach some promotion information. If it’s a com-
plaint, then you might be able to automatically generate some generic response
first and tell the customer that he or she can expect a detailed response later. All of
these aim to help people to improve their productivity.
Figure 10.10 shows the trend of technology and characterizes intelligent infor-
mation systems with three angles. In the center of the figure there’s a triangle that
connects keyword queries to search a bag-of-words representation. That means the
current search engines basically provides search support to users and mostly model
users based on keyword queries, seeing the data through a bag-of-words representa-
tion. Current search engines don’t really “understand” information in the indexed
documents. Consider some trends to push each node toward a more advanced func-
tion, away from the center. Imagine if we can go beyond keyword queries, look at
the user search history, and then further model the user to completely understand
the user’s task environment, context, or other information. Clearly, this is pushing
for personalization and a more complete user model, which is a major direction
in order to build intelligent information systems. On the document side, we can
also go beyond a bag-of-words implementation to have an entity-relation represen-
tation. This means we’ll recognize people’s names, their relations, locations, and
any other potentially useful information. This is already feasible with today’s nat-
ural language processing techniques.
Google has initiated some of this work via its Knowledge Graph. Once we can get
to that level without much manual human effort, the search engine can provide a
muchbetterservice.Inthefuture, wewouldliketohaveaknowledgerepresentation
where we can perhaps add some inference rules, making the search engine more
intelligent. This calls for large-scale semantic analysis, and perhaps this is initially
more feasible for vertical search engines. That is, it’s easier to make progress in
one particular domain.
On the service side, we see we need to go beyond search to support information
access in general; search is only one way to get access to information. Going beyond
access, we also need to help people digest information once it is found, and this
step has to do with analysis of information or data mining. We have to find patterns
or convert the text information into real knowledge that can be used in application
or actionable knowledge that can be used for decision making. Furthermore, the
