110
Chapter 6
Retrieval Models
and contributes a large weight. If we do that for all the fields, then the same term
might have gained a large advantage in every field. When we just combine counts
on each separate field, the extra occurrences will not be counted as fresh first
occurrences. This method has worked very well for scoring structured documents.
More details can be found in Robertson et al. [2004].
Another line of extension is called BM25+. Here, researchers have addressed the
problem of over-penalization of long documents by BM25. To address this problem,
the fix is actually quite simple. We can simply add a small constant to the TF
normalization formula. But what’s interesting is that we can analytically prove that
by doing such a small modification, we will fix the problem of over-penalization
of long documents by the original BM25. Thus, the new formula called BM25+ is
empirically and analytically shown to be better than BM25 [Lv and Zhai 2011].
6.3.7
Summary
In vector space retrieval models, we use similarity as a notion of relevance, assum-
ing that the relevance of a document with respect to a query is correlated with the
similarity between the query and the document. Naturally, that implies that the
query and document must be represented in the same way, and in this case, we
represent them as vectors in a high dimensional vector space. The dimensions are
defined by words, concepts, or terms. We generally need to use multiple heuris-
tics to design a ranking function; we gave some examples which show the need for
several heuristics, which include:
.
TF (term frequency) weighting and sublinear transformation;
.
IDF (inverse document frequency) weighting; and
.
document length normalization.
These three are the most important heuristics to ensure such a general ranking
function works well for all kinds of tasks. Finally, BM25 and pivoted length nor-
malization seem to be the most effective VS formulas. While there has been some
work done in improving these two powerful measures, their main idea remains
the same. In the next section, we will discuss an alternative approach to the vector
space representation.
6.4
Probabilistic Retrieval Models
In this section, we will look at a very different way to design ranking functions than
the vector space model that we discussed before. In probabilistic models, we define
the ranking function based on the probability that a given document d is relevant
