Acknowledgments
xix
Laux, Laurel Muller, MaryEllen Oliver, and Jacqui Scarlott) for their great help with
indexing, illustrations, art proofreading, and composition, which ensured a fast
and smooth production of the book.
The content of the book and our understanding of the topics covered in the book
have benefited from many discussions and interactions with a large number of
people in both the research community and industry. Due to space limitations,
we can only mention some of them here (and have to apologize to many whose
names are not mentioned): James Allan, Charu Aggarwal, Ricardo Baeza-Yates,
Nicholas J. Belkin, Andrei Broder, Jamie Callan, Jaime Carbonell, Kevin C. Chang,
Yi Chang, Charlie Clarke, Fabio Crestani, W. Bruce Croft, Maarten de Rijke, Arjen
de Vries, Daniel Diermeier, AnHai Doan, Susan Dumais, David A. Evans, Edward A.
Fox, Ophir Frieder, Norbert Fuhr, Evgeniy Gabrilovich, C. Lee Giles, David Gross-
man, Jiawei Han, Donna Harman, Marti Hearst, Jimmy Huang, Rong Jin, Thorsten
Joachims, Paul Kantor, David Karger, Diane Kelly, Ravi Kumar, Oren Kurland, John
Lafferty, Victor Lavrenko, Lillian Lee, David Lewis, Jimmy Lin, Bing Liu, Wei-Ying
Ma, Christopher Manning, Gary Marchionini, Andrew McCallum, Alistair Moffat,
Jian-Yun Nie, Douglas Oard, Dragomir R. Radev, Prabhakar Raghavan, Stephen
Robertson, Roni Rosenfeld, Dan Roth, Mark Sanderson, Bruce Schatz, Fabrizio Se-
bastiani, Amit Singhal, Keith van Rijsbergen, Luo Si, Noah Smith, Padhraic Smyth,
Andrew Tomkins, Ellen Voorhees, and Yiming Yang, Yi Zhang, Justin Zobel. We
want to thank all of them for their indirect contributions to this book. Some ma-
terials in the book, especially those in Chapter 19, are based on the research work
done by many Ph.D. graduates of the Text Information Management and Analysis
(TIMAN) group at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, under the super-
visionbythefirstauthor.Wearegratefultoallofthem, includingTaoTao, HuiFang,
Xuehua Shen, Azadeh Shakery, Jing Jiang, Qiaozhu Mei, Xuanhui Wang, Bin Tan,
Xu Ling, Younhee Ko, Alexander Kotov, Yue Lu, Maryam Karimzadehgan, Yuanhua
Lv, Duo Zhang, V.G.Vinod Vydiswaran, Hyun Duk Kim, Kavita Ganesan, Parikshit
Sondhi, Huizhong Duan, Yanen Li, Hongning Wang, Mingjie Qian, and Dae Hoon
Park. The authors’ own work included in the book has been supported by multiple
funding sources, including NSF, NIH, NASA, IARPA, Air Force, ONR, DHS, Alfred P.
Sloan Foundation, and many companies including Microsoft, Google, IBM, Yahoo!,
LinkedIn, Intel, HP, and TCL. We are thankful to all of them.
The two Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) offered by the first author for
the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign (UIUC) in 2015 on Coursera (i.e.,
Text Retrieval and Search Engines and Text Mining and Analytics) provided a direct
basis for this book in the sense that many parts of the book are based primarily
on the transcribed notes of the lectures in these two MOOCs. We thus would like
