18
Chapter 1
Introduction
Bibliographic Notes and Further Reading
There are already multiple excellent text books in information retrieval (IR). Due
to the long history of research in information retrieval and the fact that much
foudational work has been done in 1960s, even some very old books such as van
Rijsbergen [1979] and Salton and McGill [1983] and Salton [1989] remain very
useful today. Another useful early book is Frakes and Baeza-Yates [1992]. More
recent ones include Grossman and Frieder [2004], Witten et al. [1999], and Belew
[2008]. The most recent ones are Manning et al. [2008], Croft et al. [2009], B¨uttcher
et al. [2010], and Baeza-Yates and Ribeiro-Neto [2011]. Compared with these books,
this book has a broader view of the topic of information retrieval and attempts to
cover both text retrieval and text mining. While some existing books on IR have
also touched some topics such as text categorization and text clustering, which we
classify as text mining topics, no previous book has included an in-depth discussion
of topic mining and analysis, an important family of techniques very useful for
text mining. Recommender systems also seem to be missing in the existing books
on IR, which we include as an alternative way to support users for text access
complementary with search engines. More importantly, this book treats all these
topics in a more systematic way than existing books by framing them in a unified
coherent conceptual framework for managing and analyzing big text data; the book
also attempts to minimize the gap between abstract explanation of algorithms
and practical applications by providing a companion toolkit for many exercises.
Readers who want to know more about the history of IR research and the major
early milestones should take a look at the collection of readings in Sparck Jones
and Willett [1997].
The topic of text mining has also been covered in multiple books (e.g., Feldman
and Sanger [2007]). A major difference between this book and those is our empha-
sis on the integration of text mining and information retrieval with a belief that
any text data application system must involve humans in the loop and search en-
gines are essential components of any text mining systems to support two essential
functions: (1) help convert a large raw text data set into a much smaller, but more
relevant text data set which can be efficiently anlayzed by using a text mining al-
gorithm (i.e., data reduction) and (2) help users verify the source text articles from
which knowledge is discovered by a text mining algorithm (i.e., knowledge prove-
nance). As a result, this book provides a more complete coverage of techniques
required for developing big text data applications.
The focus of this book is on covering algorithms that are general and robust,
which can be readily applied to any text data in any natural language, often with
no or minimum human effort. An evitable cost of this focus is its lack of coverage
