10.5 The Future of Web Search
213
Another trend we can expect to see is search engines that are able to learn over
time, a form of lifetime learning or lifelong learning. This is very attractive because
that means the search engine will be able to self-improve. As more people use it,
the search engine will become better and better. This is already happening, because
the search engines can learn from the relevance feedback. More users use it, and
the quality of the search engine allows for the popular queries that are typed in by
many users to retrieve better results.
A third trend might be the integration of information access. Search, navigation,
and recommendation might be combined to form a full-fledged information man-
agement system. In the beginning of this book, we talked about push access versus
pull access; these modes can be combined. For example, if a search engine detects
that a user is unsatisfied with search results, a “note” may be made. In the future,
if a new document is crawled that matches the user’s information need recorded
in the note, this new document could be pushed to the user. Currently, most of
the cases of information recommendation are advertising, but in the future, you
can imagine recommendation is seamlessly integrated into the system with multi-
mode information access.
Anothertrendisthatwemightseesystemsthattrytogobeyondsearchtosupport
user tasks. After all, the reason why people want to search is to solve a problem or
to make a decision to perform a task. For example, consumers might search for
opinions about products in order to purchase a product, so it would be beneficial to
support the whole shopping workflow. For example, you can sometimes look at the
review displayed directly in search results; if the user decides to buy the product,
they can simply click a button to go to the shopping site directly and make the
purchase. While there is good support for shopping, current search engines do not
provide good task support for many other tasks. Researchers might want to find
related work or suggested citations. Currently, there’s not much support for a task
such as writing a paper.
We can think about any intelligent system—especially intelligent information
systems—specified by three nodes. If we connect these nodes into a triangle, then
we’ll able to specify an information system. We can call this triangle the Data-User-
Service Triangle. The three questions you ask are as follows.
.
Who are you serving?
.
What kind of data are you managing?
.
What kind of service are you providing?
