9
SearchEngineEvaluation
This chapter focuses on the evaluation of text retrieval (TR) systems. In the previous
chapter, we talked about a number of different TR methods and ranking functions,
but how do we know which one works the best? In order to answer this question,
we have to compare them, and that means we’ll have to evaluate these retrieval
methods. This is the main focus of this chapter. We start out with the methodology
behind evaluation. Then, we compare the retrieval of sets with the retrieval of
ranked lists as well as judgements with multiple levels of relevance. We end with
practical issues in evaluation, followed by exercises.
9.1
Introduction
Let’s think about why we have to do evaluation. There are two main reasons;
the first is that we have to use evaluation to figure out which retrieval method
works the best. This is very important for advancing our knowledge, otherwise we
wouldn’t know whether a new idea works better than an old idea. Previously in this
book (Chapter 6), we discussed the problem of text retrieval and compared it with
database retrieval. Search engine evaluation must rely on users, so this becomes
a very challenging problem. Because of this, we must determine how we can get
users involved and draw a fair comparison of different methods.
The second reason to perform evaluation is to assess the actual utility of an
overall TR system (as opposed to specific methods). Imagine you’re building your
own applications; you would be interested in knowing how well your search engine
works for your users. In this case, measures must reflect the utility to the actual
users in the real application as opposed to measures on each individual retrieval
result. Typically, this has been done via user studies—where human users inter-
act with the corpus via the system. In the case of comparing different methods, the
measures we use all need to be correlated with the utility to the users. The measures
only need to be good enough to determine which method works better. This is usu-
ally done by using a test collection, which is a main idea that we’ll be talking about
