19.3 Contextual Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis
421
View1
Themes
Theme
coverage:
Government
Donation
New
Orleans
Texas
Texas
View2
July
2005
July 2005
…
Document
View3
Sociologist
Choose a view
Choose a 
coverage
Choose a topic
government 0.3
response 0.2 …
Document context:
Time = July 2005
Location = Texas
Author = xxx
Occupation = sociologist
Age group = 45+
…
donate 0.1
relief 0.05
help 0.02 …
city 0.2
new 0.1
orleans 0.05 …
Figure 19.4
CPLSA as a generative model depending on context. (Courtesy of Qiaozhu Mei)
all documents with July 2005 as the time context. This is very different from the
PLSA where each document has its own coverage preference, which is independent
of each other. The dependency (on context) introduced here enables all the text with
a particular context associated to contribute to the learning of the topic coverage.
Once a view of topics and a topic coverage distribution have been chosen, the
rest of the generation process is exactly the same as in PLSA. That is, we will use
the topic coverage and selection distribution to sample a topic, and then use the
corresponding word distribution of the topic (i.e., chosen view of the topic) to gen-
erate a word. In such a generation process, each word can be potentially generated
using a different view and a different topic coverage distribution depending on the
contexts chosen to direct the generation process. Note that the context that deter-
mines the choice of view of a topic can be different from the context chosen to
decide the topic coverage. This is illustrated in Figure 19.5 where we show that all
the words in the document have now been generated by using CPLSA, which is es-
sentially a mixture model with many component models associated with different
contexts.
In CPLSA, both the views of topics and the topic coverage depend on context, so
it enables discovery of different variations of the same topic in different contexts
(due to the dependency of a view of topics on context) and different topic cover-
ages in different contexts (due to the dependency of topic coverage on context).
