Exercises
85
formation retrieval book by van Rijsbergen [1979]. [Hearst 2009] has a systematic
discussion of user interfaces of a search system, which is relevant to the design of
interfaces for any information system in general; in particular, many visualization
techniques that can facilitate browsing and querying are discussed in the book. Ex-
ploratory search is a particular type of search tasks that often requires multimodal
information access including both querying and browsing. It was covered in a spe-
cial issue of Communications of ACM [White et al. 2006], and White and Roth [2009].
The probability ranking principle [Robertson 1997] is generally regarded as the the-
oretical foundation for framing the retrieval problem as a ranking problem. More
historical work related to this, as well as a set of important research papers in IR up
to 1997, can be found in Readings in Information Retrieval [Sparck Jones and Willett
1997]. A brief survey of IR history can be found in Sanderson and Croft [2012].
Exercises
5.1. When might browsing be preferable to querying?
5.2. Given search engine user logs, how could you distinguish between browsing
behavior and querying behavior?
5.3. Often, push and pull modes are combined in a single system. Give an example
of such an application.
5.4. Imagine you have search engine session logs from users that you know are
browsing for information. How can you use these logs to enhance search results of
future users with ad hoc information needs?
5.5. In a Chapter 11, we will discuss recommender systems. These are systems in
push mode that deliver information to users. What are some specific applications
of recommender systems? Can you name some services available to you that fit into
this access mode?
5.6. How could a recommender system (push mode) be coupled with a search
engine (pull mode)? Can these two services mutually enhance one another?
5.7. Design a text information system used to explore musical artists. For example,
you can search for an artist’s name directly. The results are displayed as a graph,
with edges to similar artists (as measured by some similarity algorithm). Use TIS
access mode vocabulary to describe this system and any enhancements you could
make to satisfy different information needs.
5.8. In the same way as the previous question, categorize “Google knowledge
graph” (http://www.google.com/insidesearch/features/search/knowledge.html).
