48
Chapter 3
Text Data Understanding
Such a high-level representation is even less robust than the sequence of words
or POS tags. It’s not always easy to identify all the entities with the right types and
we might make mistakes. Relations are even harder to find; again, we might make
mistakes. The level of representation is less robust, yet it’s very useful. If we move
further to a logic representation, then we have predicates and inference rules. With
inference rules we can infer interesting derived facts from the text. As one would
imagine, we can’t do that all the time for all kinds of sentences since it may take
significant computation time or a large amount of training data.
Finally, speech acts would add yet another level of representation of the intent
of this sentence. In this example, it might be a request. Knowing that would allow
us to analyze even more interesting things about the observer or the author of this
sentence. What’s the intention of saying that? What scenarios or what kinds of
actions will occur?
Figure 3.3 shows that if we move downwards, we generally see more sophisti-
cated NLP techniques. Unfortunately, such techniques would require more human
effort as well, and they are generally less robust since they attempt to solve a much
more difficult problem. If we analyze our text at levels that represent deeper analy-
sis of language, then we have to tolerate potential errors. That also means it’s still
necessary to combine such deep analysis with shallow analysis based on (for exam-
ple) sequences of words. On the right side, there is an arrow that points down to
indicate that as we go down, our representation of text is closer to the knowledge
representation in our mind. That’s the purpose of text mining!
Clearly, there is a tradeoff here between doing deeper analysis that might have
errors but would give us direct knowledge that can be extracted from text and doing
shadow analysis that is more robust but wouldn’t give us the necessary deeper
representation of knowledge.
Text data are generated by humans and are meant to be consumed by humans.
As a result, in text data analysis and text mining, humans play a very important role.
They are always in the loop, meaning that we should optimize for a collaboration
between humans and computers. In that sense, it’s okay that computers may not
be able to have a completely accurate representation of text data. Patterns that
are extracted from text data can be interpreted by humans, and then humans can
guide the computers to do more accurate analysis by annotating more data, guiding
machine learning programs to make them work more effectively.
Different text representation tends to enable different analyses, as shown in
Figure 3.4. In particular, we can gradually add more and more deeper analysis
results to represent text data that would open up more interesting representation
opportunities and analysis capabilities. The table summarizes what we have just
