4
Chapter 1
Introduction
Text is the most expressive form of information in the sense that it can be
used to describe other media such as video or images. Indeed, image search
engines such as those supported by Google and Bing often rely on matching
companion text of images to retrieve “matching” images to a user’s keyword
query.
The explosive growth of online text information has created a strong demand
for intelligent software tools to provide the following two related services to help
people manage and exploit big text data.
Text Retrieval.
The growth of text data makes it impossible for people to con-
sume the data in a timely manner. Since text data encode much of our accu-
mulated knowledge, they generally cannot be discarded, leading to, e.g., the
accumulation of a large amount of literature data which is now beyond any
individual’s capacity to even skim over. The rapid growth of online text infor-
mation also means that no one can possibly digest all the new information
created on a daily basis. Thus, there is an urgent need for developing intel-
ligent text retrieval systems to help people get access to the needed relevant
information quickly and accurately, leading to the recent growth of the web
search industry. Indeed, web search engines like Google and Bing are now an
essential part of our daily life, serving millions of queries daily. In general,
search engines are useful anywhere there is a relatively large amount of text
data (e.g., desktop search, enterprise search or literature search in a specific
domain such as PubMed).
Text Mining. Due to the fact that text data are produced by humans for commu-
nication purposes, they are generally rich in semantic content and often con-
tain valuable knowledge, information, opinions, and preferences of people.
As such, they offer great opportunity for discovering various kinds of knowl-
edge useful for many applications, especially knowledge about human opin-
ions and preferences, which is often directly expressed in text data. For exam-
ple, it is now the norm for people to tap into opinionated text data such as
product reviews, forum discussions, and social media text to obtain opinions
about topics interesting to them and optimize various decision-making tasks
such as purchasing a product or choosing a service. Once again, due to the
overwhelming amount of information, people need intelligent software tools
to help discover relevant knowledge to optimize decisions or help them com-
plete their tasks more efficiently. While the technology for supporting text
mining is not yet as mature as search engines for supporting text access, sig-
