1.1 Functions of Text Information Systems
9
information need, i.e., a temporary information need (e.g., an immediate need for
opinions about a product). For example, a search engine like Google generally
serves a user in pull mode. In the push mode, the system takes initiative to “push”
(recommend) to the user an information item that the system believes is useful to
the user. The push mode often works well when the user has a relatively stable
information need (e.g., hobby of a person); in such a case, a system can know
“in advance” a user’s preferences and interests, making it feasible to recommend
information to a user without having the user to take the initiative. We cover both
modes of information access in this book.
The pull mode further consists of two complementary ways for a user to obtain
relevant information: querying and browsing. In the case of querying, the user
specifies the information need with a (keyword) query, and the system would take
the query as input and return documents that are estimated to be relevant to the
query. In the case of browsing, the user simply navigates along structures that
link information items together and progressively reaches relevant information.
Since querying can also be regarded as a way to navigate, in one step, into a set
of relevant documents, it’s clear that browsing and querying can be interleaved
naturally. Indeed, a user of a web search engine often interleaves querying and
browsing.
Knowledge acquisition from text data is often achieved through the process of
text mining, which can be defined as mining text data to discover useful knowl-
edge. Both the data mining community and the natural language processing
(NLP) community have developed methods for text mining, although the two
communities tend to adopt slightly different perspective on the problem. From
a data mining perspective, we may view text mining as mining a special kind
of data, i.e., text. Following the general goals of data mining, the goal of text
mining would naturally be regarded as to discover and extract interesting pat-
terns in text data, which can include latent topics, topical trends, or outliers.
From an NLP perspective, text mining can be regarded as to partially under-
stand natural language text, convert text into some form of knowledge represen-
tation and make limited inferences based on the extracted knowledge. Thus a
key task is to perform information extraction, which often aims to identify and ex-
tract mentions of various entities (e.g., people, organization, and location) and
their relations (e.g., who met with whom). In practice, of course, any text min-
ing applications would likely involve both pattern discovery (i.e., data mining
view) and information extraction (i.e., NLP view), with information extraction
serving as enriching the semantic representation of text, which enables pattern
