Exercises
441
chapter. What types of techniques would be used to support the application?
Consider, for example, clustering, categorization, or topic analysis.
2. In our discussion on contextual text mining, we showed several ways to par-
tition data, e.g., by year or venue for research papers. Imagine that we would
like to add another context variable such as author affiliation. Can we simply
filter out results based on a target affiliation or is it necessary to rerun the
entire application to incorporate this additional knowledge?
3. In contextual text mining, we gave several example queries.
What topics have been getting increasing attention recently in data
mining research?
Is there any difference in the responses of people in different regions
to an event?
What are the common research interests of two researchers?
Is there any difference in the research topics published by authors in
the U.S. and those outside?
What would actual answers returned by such a system look like? For exam-
ple, what actual object(s) would be returned by the system and what would
human users have to do in order to interpret them?
4. In what ways is CPLSA related to LARA or other sentiment topic mining
algorithms? Does one have an advantage over the other in certain tasks?
5. For topic analysis with network context, we used networks to enforce con-
straints on topic models. Can we use the same model to predict when links
will be formed between nodes? If not, is it possible to adjust the model to
support this?
6. META includes a graph library. Can you combine this with META’s topic mod-
els to create a network-constrained topic analysis? For example, the Yelp aca-
demic dataset (https://www.yelp.com/academic_dataset) contains both text
and network information in addition to business review data.
7. The resolution of time series data will have some effect on joint applications
with text data. For example, consider intraday stock data on the resolution of
one second (that is, there is a data point for each symbol for every second).
Would text mining applications integrating newspaper articles be able to take
advantage of such data? How can this data best be leveraged?
8. In time series applications, data is often streaming (receiving updates at
specified time intervals). Do the discussed models support streaming time
series (and text) data? Is there any way to adjust them if they don’t?
